
					Recently  was asked to explain the difference between reflection and total internal reflection from a purely conceptual standpoint (no math).  

					Let me explain   already know.  Reflection and refraction at the quantum level are the same thing.  Light  a photon.  A photon  a dcrete particle that has wave charactertics (a finite wave traveling like a bullet).  As the photon travels it collides with electrons in the matter of the medium it  traveling in.  Depending on the energy of the photon and the allowed energy bands of the medium the photon cause the electron to jump up a level.  f the photon  absorbed then the medium will increase its motion (at the macro scale increasing its temperature).  f the photon  not absorbed it will be re-emitted (really as a new photon).  have read and watched Feynman's QED lectures and book and have a pretty good understanding of h process for determining  all these paths come together to give the net path of the photon.  The general rule of thumb  that the photon wants to take the path  requires the least amount of time.   understand  th principle goes to explain refraction and reflection.  

					  don't seem to understand   does one material seem to cause a higher percentage of refraction compared to another (metal vs. glass).   about the electron configuration of a the medium changes the net effect of the absorption and re-emsions of the photons  s there a change in the probability of the photon being re-emitted in a reverse direction  s there a farther dtance the photon can travel before being incident onto an electron  Th  the part where my understand breaks down.  

					 you have hit the critical angle in a medium that refracts and the light completely reflects, are the photons moving  the same manner as they would be in a material that always reflects  does th connect to the question in the previous paragraph

					 know  have a bunch of mini  embedded in answering th one larger question.  Any help on any of the parts would be greatly appreciated

				
					According to schmidt decomposition any pure state belonging to a composite system  can be written as  where  are non negative real numbers and  and  are orthonormal bas for system  and  respectively. But in an exerce ( exerce 2.77 ) of Nielsen and Chuang it asks to s an example for a composite system  where the pure state belonging to it cannot be written as . f  am not wrong then   one such example. But  there any physical significance behind it that schmidt decomposition holds for two component composite system only or  it just a mathematical result  And  the absence of schmidt decomposition for higher component composite systems related to concept of entanglement 

				
					Short Setup

					 am curious about the the mechanics of fields, whether electromagnetic, gravitational, etc.  So as a specific example in order to simplify (hopefully)  to ask th question, consider pair production or annihilation, specifically interactions between electrons and positrons.

					My specific curiosity  in  we handle the "sudden" creation or loss of a source and  the source then creates its associated field.  My naive guess  that the loss of a source (e.g., annihilation) might be easier to handle, but let's focus on creation of a source for now.

					

					The specific example of pair production interested me because  was wondering:

					
					 does the field are from the sources

					
					Meaning,  it delayed until after the source  fully "condenses" from the Higgs field, for instance
					Or does the field slowly "turn on" as the source "condenses"

					
					Perhaps  should have asked whether it we know if it takes time for sources to form ( assume it does).  f so, can we describe th from first principles or  it empirically based
					
					Am  asking that in a very uncomfortable manner  f so,  would appreciate any suggestions.  For instance,  there a better word than "condense"   was thinking about water condensation as a very loose analogy to the purpose of the Higgs field in the formation of massive objects.
					
					 can they be produced without immediately recombining

					
					That ,  "close" are the two sources spatially after formation and  energies are needed to overcome the associated potential
					
					Does the field emanate/propagate as if from a point source

					
					 ask because  am trying to determine whether th  a simple Gauss's law sue (i.e., far away it's just like a point source) or if the field emanates only from the "surface" of the source (e.g., proton).
					f it starts from "within" the source as the source forms, do we know  to handle th mathematically

					
					My concern ares from the "similar" problem of bubble formation, where the bubble starts with zero radius  would require an infinite energy.  Perhaps the analogy  not appropriate
					
					
					

					Purpose

					 ask these  because it struck me th morning, while driving to work, that  did not know  and when a field "turned on."   started to think about pair production and then quickly became confused (not difficult to do) and thought many of the quantum whperers on th site would be much better at explaining these nuances than any of my failed rummaging through Wikipedia or scholarly articles and old text books.

				
					 have a spinless particle of mass  and charge    an otropic harmonic oscillator of frequency , then  apply a constant magnetic field in the  direction. We can s the Hamiltonian operator in th case :

					

					Then the exerce asks me to immediately give the exact energy levels without doing any calculation, but  don't see  that's possible.

					
					The Hamiltonian  not separable in rectangular coordinates because of the  term. My friend told me to just use the fact that  form a CSCO (complete set of commuting observables) and thus have the same eigenvectors, but  don't think that's true; they form a CSCO only if the potential  central.
					Changing the Hamiltonian to cylindrical or spherical coordinates doesn't seem to help.
					 could try via a perturbation method:
					

					

					with:

					

					But th requires doing some calculation and doesn't give the exact energy levels.

					Thanks for the help!

				
					That's pretty much it.  Th  the result of a kid's book in  a boy goes searching through parallel universes to try and find h dead mother, and there are explanations of Schrodinger's Cat and quantum entanglement along the way.

					 am an arts graduate and clueless: the project  supposed to fit into a shoebox.  Any help will be much appreciated.

				
					A typical problem in quantum mechanics  to calculate the spectrum that corresponds to a given potential. 

					
					s there a one to one correspondence between the potential and its spectrum 
					f the answer to the previous question  yes, then given the spectrum,  there a systematic way to calculate the corresponding potential
					

				
					 want to be able to find the Wigner transforms of operators of the form , where   the Heavide function and  in general depends on both  and . For the operators of interest,   known. Since the Wigner transform  linear,  can use the expression 

					Unfortunately,  am no better off than  was when  started, as  can't figure out  get the Wigner transform of the absolute value of an arbitrary operator in terms of the Wigner transform of that operator.

					s there an expression for the Wigner transform of the absolute value of an operator in terms of the Wigner transform of that same operator

					f so,   it

				
					As students on solid state physics, we are all taught to use the periodic boundary condition, taking 1D as an example:
					
					where   the length of the 1D crystal.

					My question :

					
					 th boundary condition  acceptable Only because we think we are dealing with the bulk, and the surface are not relevant too much
					 about other boundary condations, such as zero boundary condtion, grain boundary condition etc f ignoring their complexity, can they get the same answer as the periodic boundary condition
					 about other artificial boundary conditions, for example, if  let , could  get the same energy band
					

				
					'd like to know the derivation of Lippmann-Schwinger equation (LSE) in operator formalm and on  assumptions it  based.  consulted the Ballentine book as adved in th Phys.SE post, but  still don't understand it.

					t states that if LSE holds:
					

					then  or alternatively 
					

					Here  and  signifies a limit  as .

					Now, it  easy to verify that . But, as the book states,  contains more information and  think that . So   LSE truly derived f we consider problem  then obviously   also a solution.  do we need 

					And lastly    defined f it  defined by  then  does it have the same eigenvalues as  has for    it even true that the spectral problem  has a solution

				
					My understanding of the Stern–Gerlach experiment  that neutral (0 total charge) particles are sent through a non-homogeneous magnetic field, with the expectation that the field will push that particle's path higher or lower on a detector because of the collective spin of that particle. While the detector can detect particles in a two-dimensional surface, the results of the experiment are that particles appear in only two localized areas directly above the path of the particle stream, or directly below the path of the particle stream - spin up or spin down. The conclusions from these measurements are that the particle, when measured, will always have about the same magnitude.

					 does th not follow from classical mechanical theory related to magnetm f you shot a magnet through a similar apparatus,  would expect the magnet to be rotated to align with the magnetic field in some way , at high enough field strengths relative to the mass of the magnet, would cause us to measure basically the same magnitude as if the magnet entered the apparatus pre-aligned with the field.

					  my explanation incorrect

				
					'm studying coherent states of the harmonic oscillator and  have learned about the so called dplacement operator,   the operator defined as
					
					whose action over the fundamental state   to produce a coherent state .
					Now,   it called dplacement operator n  sense does it dplace the state  

				
					 am new to quantum mechanics, and  just studied some parts of "wave mechanics" version of quantum mechanics. But  heard that wavefunction can be represented as vector in Hilbert space. n my eye, th seems almost improbable.  does th work Can anyone present an example and  it gets converted to vector form

					So  am referring to Dirac Bra-ket formulation of quantum mechanics.

				
					 am trying to learn quantum information theory. Suppose we have a bipartite (as well as multi-partite) quantum system .   a LOCC (Local Operations and Classical Communication) map  in terms of Kraus operators Does it mean that the Kraus operators split, i.e. of the form
					\
					where  

					Then  to write determintic and probabiltic LOCC in terms of Kraus operators

				
					 happens to the topological entanglement entropy of a system, when it  driven out of its groundstate by increasing the temperature

				
					 learned that power intensity in EM (electromagnetic) radiation  
					
					Th equation implies that the energy in EM radiation  frequency-independent

					 also learned that photon energy (quantized energy) in EM waves  
					; th equation implies that EM energy  amplitude-independent

					The first equation describes the wave nature of light, while the second one describes the particle nature of light, can we combine the two equations like th 

					

					where   the number of photons that flow through the surface area  during  interval of time

				
					As a supplement to th question as to whether particles can be observers, supposing that the answer  yes. One could suppose a setup where particle A  observing particle B, but  to stop us switching viewpoints around here and supposing particle B  observing particle A

					 find th  an intriguing possibility considering the importance of symmetry in Physics.

				
					 used to think  had the meaning of some likelihood of the particle's momentum being  (within some tolerance interval ). Now 'm just confused. 

					'll use momentum , wavenumber , and velocity  interchangeably here (i.e., 'll use the convention , ).  begin with the momentum dtribution at the time . Further, let's limit ourselves to wavefunctions that are initially real, and also describe a stationary state in some potential well configuration. 

					 want to compare the evolution of the above state, with the evolution of the state of a free particle. As soon as the clock moves forward just an instant beyond , these two different systems evolve completely differently.

					 believe a theory that allows the probability dtribution of velocities to depend on  at time  would make more sense than a theory by  the above dtribution depends only on the initial form of the wave-function .

					A) For exemplification of the evolution of a free particle consider the spreading of a wave-packet with the initial state ,

					
					where .

					B) ever, if the same initial state would describe the particle in the well, the particle  in a bound, stationary state, and  just remains constant over time. Nothing similar to the evolution .

					Dcussion : My point was to pick an initial state (real, no current) and s that there  a great amount of current within a very short time, i.e. it seems to me that the difference between  and  happens just about instantaneously. 

					n the state  we have no current of probability, . (The current  given by the density of probability times the Bohmian velocity , where   a quantity central in Bohmian interpretations of QM.) 
					But the zero-current doesn't mean there n't any movement, simply the rate of particles moving to the bright counter-balances the rate of leftward going particles. And  have a hard time believing the dtribution of velocities in the cases A and B  exactly equal. 

					(There are similar well problems, one being the dtribution  and compared with a particle in a ground state harmonic oscillator well. Th would be a better one to use if we want to talk about the velocity dtribution and the kinetic energy. And, since there are higher bound state energy states, about the classical limit.) 

					C) An additional thought: in the classical limit (large number of nodes within some space ), one should be able to talk about a velocity dtribution near a position . t should be something like  where .  does th dtribution compare to any meaning we can gather from the positionless dtribution  Thinking classically  believe that a factor  times the difference in acceleration between the two systems should explain the difference in evolution.

					Would there be any way to obtain a position dependent velocity dtribution, or even a quantity similar to th, that would agree in the classical limit

				
					Th must be the first question everyone asks when starting to study field theory at finite density and zero temperature. 

					To introduce a finite density one adds a Lagrange multiplier  fixes the number of particles in a non-relativtic field theory or the number of particles minus the number of antiparticles in a relativtic field theories. To be concrete, in a non-relativtic field theory one has the Lagrangian density:
					
					and then the same theory at finite density  described by:
					 
					where   the chemical potential and the number of particles  .

					 dturbs me  that one may redefine the field:
					

					with  the time. And after replacing in [1]:

					
					The "finite density term" dappears. Moreover, the path integral measure  invariant under th trivial field redefinition so that the finite density QFT seems equivalent to the zero density one. (Those who are familiarized with the non-relativtic limit of relativtic equation —such as Klein-Gordon or Dirac— will recognize th term and field redefinition.)

					Something similar happens in the relativtic case. 

					 am  overlooking 

					(Note that the theory  at zero temperature so  am in real time formalm and  don't have to impose periodic boundary conditions ( think).  am interested in time evolution, scattering, etc.)

					Reply to Ron's answer:

					( here will overlook Thomas' comments,  will answer him tomorrow.)

					Ron makes an interesting point, but  think h answer  not correct. The Hamiltonian density of the theory in the original fields :
					 he correctly pointed out  that the Hamiltonian in the new fields  not just the previous Hamiltonian written in the new fields. Th  right and in classical mechanics it  well-know that one has to add a piece to the Hamiltonian when one makes an explicit time dependent transformation. He pointed out the case of quantum mechanics, and the field theoretic version :
					
					And therefore the Hamiltonian for the field  : 
					
					Th  of course the Hamiltonian corresponding to the Lagrangian written in terms  of . n th way, one sees  the "standard" theory (without the  term)  recovered in the Hamiltonian formalm as it was in path integral formalm. And th makes a lot of sense because the theory with  has to be equivalent to the theory with  because we are just subtracting the rest energy.

					Of course, th  true as long as one does not impose periodic boundary conditions. 

				
					Suppose  want to describe an arbitrary state of a quantum particle in a box of side . The relevant eigenmodes are those of standing waves, namely 
					
					n th bas, the operate   diagonal by construction, so every state has a definite energy.

					But suppose  want to construct th operator from the matrix elements of  These are ()
					
					 vanhes for  and  with the same evenness, making th an off-diagonal "checkered" matrix.

					 tried taking a finite portion of th matrix and squaring it in order to obtain , but from   could tell, th yields an on-diagonal checkered matrix, contrary to the construction that it would be strictly diagonal.

					 assume th has something to do with the fact that the wavefunctions obtained by applying  do not satfy the same boundary conditions as the bas functions (do not vanh). Would th problem be solved  had taken the the infinite matrix in its entirety before squaring Or  th entire problem (decomposing  in th bas) ill-defined

				
					The derivation of both Klein-Gordon equation and Dirac equation  due the need of quantum mechanics (or to say more correctly, quantum field theory) to adhere to special relativity. ever, excpet that Klein-Gordon has negative probability sue,  do not see difference between these two.  makes Klein-Gordon describe scalar field while Dirac describe spin-1/2 field
					Edit: oops. Klein-Gordon does not have non-locality sue. Sorry for writing wrongly.

					Edit: Can anyone tell me in detail   field  scalar in Klein-Gordon while  in Dirac  spin-1/2  mean, if solution to Dirac  solution to Klein-Gordon,  does th make sense

				
					'm not sure if th  the right place to ask th question.  reale that th maybe a borderline philosophical question at th point in time, therefore feel free to close th question if you think that th  a duplicate or inappropriate for th forum. Anyway, 'm an electrical engineer and  have some basic knowledge of quantum mechanics.  know that Schrödinger's equation  determintic. ever, quantum mechanics  much deeper than that and  would like to learn more. f th question  not clearly answerable at th point than can anyone point out some recognized sources that try to answer th question.  would appreciate it if the source  scientific and more specifically,  related to quantum theory.

				
					 am having a brainfreeze moment and have confused myself, help appreciated!

					Classical Coin: Heads OR tails.

					Quantum Coin: Superposition Heads AND Tails.

					Classical Mechanics: Determintic (in principle, if not in practice) if  repeat the same experiment  get the same result.

					Quantum Mechanics: Non-determintic no way that  can predict if  get heads or tails. 

					Now think of some physical implementation of a quantum coin perhaps  send some electron to mirror, afterwards it  on a superposition on both sides of the mirror. Perhaps reflected (heads) with probability 0.9 and transmitted (tails) with probability 0.1.

					My question  does a classical analogy ext here t can't be both determintic and agree with the probabilities predicted by quantum mechanics right s the problem just that  should not be applying classical physics at all here Does th question even make any sense

				
					Unruhs Law says that "an accelerating observers in empty space will see themselves embedded in a gas of hot photons at a temperature proportional to their acceleration." 

					Tell me if  have th wrong, but as  understand, th  because empty space  full of virtual particles popping into extence and immediately annihilating, so you cannot detect them until you begin to accelerate. Th  because an accelerating observer has an effective horizon (a Rindler horizon)  they cannot see beyond, so if one of these particles drifts out of their view and into their hidden region, they only see one of the particles (lets say they're photons) and will be able to detect it and interpret it as heat. 

					  th possible Shouldn't a photon still annihilate with its partner regardless of  side of some arbitrary horizon it's on And  th photon pair entangled

				
					'm studying Bell's theorem and the CHSH inequality for some time. Now it's clear to me that one cannot reproduce the correlations predicted by quantum mechanics by assuming that particles carry hidden variables with them, and measurements depend only on them. 

					But  about the case where we consider the most general scenario: the measurement outcome can depend on the entire past light cone.  not 

					Th would mean more information are available when the detector "chooses" an outcome, than just the variables carried by the current particle: for example the measurement of the current particle can depend on previous measurements, past measurements on the other detector when they reached the past light cone of the current event, etc. 

					s it possible to s that such assumptions are also ruled out Bell's theorem 

				
					Th question  related but my question here  much more elementary than dcussions of the Pauli principle across the universe.

					There has been a fair amount of dcussion around at the moment on the double well potential model in quantum mechanics.  The question  have here  just concerned with some very simple basic schoolboy quantum mechanics that you need to get right in order to progress with the dcussions ( think these  would be too elementary for a physict to ask - fortunately 'm not a physict, so my embarrassment  under control).

					The scenario  th:   have a double square finite depth potential well with a large dtance separating the wells.  Call them left hand and right hand wells. The model  want to use  elementary nonrelativtic quantum mechanics.  The energy eigenstates of such a system are similar to those of a single well, but  was one energy eigenstate now becomes two with incredibly closely spaced energy levels (ref).

					Suppose  have two electrons in th system in the two very closely spaced lowest levels  and   .  The two electrons are indtinguhable, so the state    The statement that has often been made in these dcussions  something like "an observer in the left hand well now makes an energy measurement of an electron and gets the value  ".   

					n talking about th scenario, in the link  gave above Sean Carroll stated 

					
					  "magine that we have such a situation with two electrons in two
					  atoms, in a mutually entangled state. We measure our electron to be in
					  energy level 1. s it true that we instantly know that our far-away
					  friend will measure their electron to be in energy level 2 Yes,
					  absolutely true."
					

					Th  where 'm confusing myself:  By assumption, our system was in an energy eigenstate, and we've made an ideal energy measurement, so by the rules of quantum mechanics after the measurement it ends up still in an energy eigenstate after the measurement.  But the observer knows that we have a double well two-fermion system and the correct system state  still the antymmetrized one .  So for an idealized measurement, the system started in th state and remained in th state.  So  ask 

					question (1):   f the measurement proceeds like th, without any extra entanglement-introducing mechanm, won't the observer think "if my far-away friend now makes an energy measurement, he'll have a 50/50 chance of getting  or  "  

					n other words: since th  non-relativtic QM, the particle could have moved to the other well immediately after the first measurement, so the state  still antymmetrized over the particle identities.

					n other other words, the state  described n't mutually entangled - just antymmetrized over the electron identities.

					question (2):  if th correct then , typically, would  introduce some entanglement between the electrons, as in Sean's statement 

					Finally, when we say "an observer in the left well makes an energy measurement", doesn't th introduce some locality into the picture for the following reason:    it implies  that the observer's measuring equipment  spatially localized in the left well, so that when an energy measurement  made, there  also an implied acquition of information about the measured electron's location at that time.  So  come to:

					question (3)  Wouldn't th mean that after such a local measurement, the measured electron cannot be in one of the system's energy eigenstates   So the system state would be something like 
					 .
					where   a spatially localized state, concentrated in the LH well.

					Th doesn't sound right.  Where  my reasoning going wrong 

				
					Consider the vector operator for angular momentum . 

					Does th mean that if we want to measure the angular momentum of a particle in state , we take  and let it act on  to give us three possible eigenvalues of ,  and ,  will correspond to the  components of the angular momentum 

					But since ,  and  does not commute, th should not be the meaning of  because if we first make a measurement of , the state of the particle will be changed, and  should no longer act on the original state .  then does the vector operator  gives us More precely,   the measurement th operator   trying to measure

				
					The Dirac Equation 
					
					with the constraints
					
					imposed to get the relativtic dpersion .  n 3D, the smallest size allowed for the  and  matrices  4x4, and th describes a spin 1/2 particle.

					've heard that using 6x6 matrices describes a spin 1 particle.  've also heard that Maxwell's Equations follow from the Dirac Equation using 6x6 matrices.  s th true  f so, do you have a reference for th  f not,  happens if  try to use a 6x6 or larger matrix to describe a particle

					Also,  know that 2x2 matrices describe a spin 1/2 particle in 2D.  s there an analogous Dirac Equation for 1D   realize that proper rotations make no sense in 1D, so  don't expect there to be a 1D Dirac Equation, but if there  one, please correct me.

				
					n derivations of decoherence, there eventually comes a point when we are asked to take the partial trace over the environment.  should th be valid for an entangled system  should taking the partial trace give the correct description of the system Taking the partial trace turns a pure density matrix into a mixed density matrix, but a pure state  always a pure state. n  sense can the reduced mixed density matrix be assigned probabilities

				
					 am curious if there are results available for the Kitaev model with a magnetic field -- in h 2006 paper, Kitaev obtains the form of the effective hamiltonian (Eq. 46 in https://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506438), ever does not give the prece prefactors. Also wondering about the 2nd order contribution (  proportional to the identity) --  just would like to see  would be the correct counting.

					Thanks! 

				
					So  am looking at a stattical path integral, meaning that  work with an Euclidean action. The propagator of my (Wiener) path integral  given by:
					
					  basically a free particle in a gravity potential. Since the action  quadratic, the WKB formula
					
					should be exact.

					The equation of motion gives me that the path of the particle meeting the boundary conditions  given by:
					
					Using th path,  can calculate the classical action  becomes equal to:
					

					Substituting all of my results in the WKB formula then yields that the propagator  now given by:
					
					The problem ever with th propagator  that it does not stay normalized. f  demand that the propagator should remain normalized at all times , then my propagator  given by:
					
					 yields an extra term compared to the first version.

					Extra: Time sliced method

					 think that  have found the source of my problem, and it can be seen by looking at the infinitesimal propagator given by
					
					n the upper part we indeed see that the normalization gets an extra exponential factor  will cause the path integral propagator (in time) to diverge. Also note that also has (more or less) the same form as the needed normalization factor (supporting my claim above)!

					
					  Question (new): For computational simplicity 'd like my propagator to still stay normalized. s it okay to just use the second normalized version for my expectation values, or  that just wrong Answer to old question of course still welcome as it may become relevant for further exploration of the path integral.
  
					  
					    Question (old): s there some kind of extra theorem that puts limitations on the correctness of the WKB formulas, or did  ms an extra important term here  have recalculated the result a couple of times and it all seems to be correct at first sight.
					  
					

					About the solution

					 also checked my solution in literature (Dittrich &amp; Reuter) but they found the same (divergent) solution without any explanation. So at least  know the found solution  correct. Unfortunately  still have no idea  th means for my physics.

				
					Can a photon be a superposition of multiple frequency states Kind of similar to  an electron can be a superposition of multiple spin states.

				
					 have question following the logics of BCS Theory regarding the ground state. First let me recap the logics of textbooks, for example, by Carsten Timm . After obtaining the interacting BCS Hamiltonian 
					
					the next step  to use the BCS ansatz, stating that the superconducting ground state has the form
					
					to find the correct expression for  and  by lowering the ground state energy variation . But the ansatz  not justified, right So   the genuine ground state of (My calculation seems to deny th) f not, then  it possible to get the ground state of 

					After th part, Carsten Timm studied the mean field BCS Hamiltonian 
					
					obtaining its excitation spectrum through the usual Bogoliubov transformation, and the diagonalized Hamiltonian reads 
					
					where 's are Bogoliubov operators. 

					ever, the ground state (let it be ) for   not mentioned.   know  that the ground state for  must satfy  for all 's, according to the free quasi-particle picture in th mean-field Hamiltonian. but   exactly the  mentioned before f not, then   the explicit form of     not solved (or even mentioned} from   

				
					 know the ground state of hydrogen  unaffected by the Stark effect to first order. And  also know that the 1st excited state  split from 4 degenerate states to 2 dtinct, and 1 degenerate state like th:

					

					But  don't quite understand .  imagine it  something to with (anti)symmetry of the wavefunctions and selection rules.

					Can anyone explain

				
					f we want to calculate mean magnetation of an equilibrium two-level-system, we know that we can resolve the identity  and giving us a uniform measure over the states of the system.

					 then remember my classical stat mech, shove in some Boltzmann factors and obtain the gibbs state
					 and can calculate the mean magnetation, for a two level system with  and  we then get . Alls seems very good.

					ever if  was ignorant to th result,  might also say  can write down a state 
					
					 hase energy . 

					So since  can write down a measure over my states 
					 can also contruct some sort of Gibbs state by weighting them all by a Boltzmann factor, th gives
					
					ever th yields , the classical result.

					My question : s there a simple physical principal to   can point to determine the correct process (one   more satfactory than simply observing that one of these approaches works and the other obtains a different answer) 

					Or  it a matter of accepting  as the definition of thermal equilibrium (and hence the von Neumann entropy as the correct entropy)

				
					My understanding of the microscopic "mechanm" of blackbody radiation* in a gas  as follows: interactions between fluctuating charge dtributions in particles of a gas create a microscopic random electromagnetic field. The particles interact with th field and with each other directly (for example, in collions), producing electromagnetic radiation in a continuous spectrum that  constent with the blackbody spectrum.

					Th means that only gases  actually couple to the electromagnetic field are allowed to produce blackbody radiation. Th  fine for almost all normal matter** in the universe, as nearly all matter  either overtly electrically charged, or  a composite particle that has charged constituents, and therefore has a fluctuating charge dtribution. (n the case of a photon gas, the constituents themselves are not charged, but the blackbody radiation and the blackbody spectrum are equivalent, because they essentially are blackbody radiation.) Th  not the case for neutrinos. They are long-lived, pointlike particles with no electrical charge, and as such, they should not be able to interact with the electromagnetic field. So a gas of neutrinos would not produce blackbody radiation.

					s th believed to be true The only "neutrino gas" in thermal equilibrium that 'm aware of  the ensemble of relic neutrinos created along with the CMB, and the difficulty of measurement of low-energy neutrinos means that we probably won't be measuring th any time soon. Nevertheless, are there observations that support th line of reasoning

					* realize that blackbody radiation  a stattical, macroscopic phenomenon, so  any semblance of a microscopic "mechanm"  stretching the truth a bit. Th    don't endeavor to go into specifics in th explanation.

					**Except dark matter, obviously. , by mass, should by all rights be considered the "normal matter" in th universe, but that's beside the point.

				
					[Edit: moved to front] For   pairs, where   a Hamiltonian and   a bas, can we write:

					

					where   real

					

					Background

					The derivation of the path integral notion  am familiar with proceeds as follows. We would like to evaluate the propagator:

					

					For some large number , we break up the time evolution from  to  into  pieces. For notational clarity, define:

					

					so that:

					

					Now, denoting the matrix elements of  by , we may write:

					

					Thus we have written  by summing over "htories" , with a product of 's matrix elements being assigned to each htory. [edited to add following Qmechanic's answer:] Assuming the 's are all nonzero, we may define , and write:

					

					where now  has the interpretation of the increment of action. Note that nothing in our analys so far has implied that   real.

					For the particular case of working in the position bas with a Hamiltonian of the form  a gaussian integral may be used to s that (as ):

					 

					with  real,  means that if we absorb the normalization into the definition of the path integral, the 's are real.

					Th  kind of bizarre. To emphasize,  we have found  not that   unitary or any nice condition like that. We have found that all of the entries  have the same absolute value.  would not expect th property to be preserved under a unitary change of bas.

					t  unobvious to me  general th result  (my suspicion  that it will definitely not hold for "most" Hamiltonians/bases). For  Hamiltonians/choice of bases are these matrix elements pure phases, and  there a simple or physical way to see that th must be so

					

					Counterexamples

					 do not believe that (1) and (2) need to be satfied in any bas for any choice of .  will try to argue th by presenting 3 examples, in decreasing order of my confidence in them.

					First consider . n th case,   nonzero when , and zero when . Th ss that (1) cannot be satfied, and indeed the 's may not even be defined.  thus believe no  exts to make (2) true.

					We can also write down something pathological like:

					

					, to my inexperienced eye, looks like , , and  will all have different magnitudes. Again (1) cannot be satfied.

					Alternatively, we may consider a normal-looking Hamiltonian:

					

					but consider the matrix elements of  in the momentum bas. Doing the same Trotter formula trick and evaluating the integral over  th time gives a result   believe  not of the form  with  real.  believe th because plugging in different values of  and  numerically changes .

					Generically, for a separable local Hamiltonian , a phase-space path integral may be defined, and the position space path integral may be recovered by integrating out .  expect that only in the case of  quadratic do we recover a position space path integral whose argument  of the form  for , and generically the result would have a varying absolute value.  believe th provides some evidence that "representable as a real-action path integral wrt a particular bas"  a fairly strong constraint on Hamiltonians.

					

				
					As far as  understand, in the early days of quantum theory there was quite a lot of debate over  to interpret  it meant for a quantum mechanical object to exhibit both wave-like and particle-like properties. 

					s it correct to say that the modern interpretation (as in the one arrived at at the end of the original construction of quantum mechanics)  that there  an intrinsic uncertainty in the measurement of properties of a quantum mechanical object, such as its position, momentum, etc. As such one can at best describe the state that it  in by a wave function that encodes all the stattical information about the possible values of its observables. Hence there  no wave-particle duality - the wave-like properties are due to the intrinsic uncertainty aring in the measurements of a particles physical observables.

					s something like th a correct understanding at all

				
					 am trying to understand  complex numbers made their way into QM. Can we have a theory of the same physics without complex numbers f so,  the theory using complex numbers easier

				
					n condensed matter, people often use periodic boundary conditions to perform calculations about bulk properties of a material. t's generally argued that in the  limit the boundary conditions don't affect the bulk properties, so you can use periodic boundary conditions to calculate bulk properties of systems with open boundaries.

					Are there any formal mathematical proofs of th fact 'm thinking about statements like:

					
					As , any observable that only looks at the bulk  not affected by the boundary conditions.
					As , the overlap of the ground state of the periodic system and the ground state of the open system goes to 1.
					As , the reduced density matrix in the bulk does not depend on the boundary conditions.
					

					Or anything similar. 'm not looking for intuitive arguments, but rather for proofs in the literature, if they ext.

					

					One thought  had after thinking about th for awhile:  believe it must be true that the Hamiltonian with periodic boundary conditions and the Hamiltonian with open boundary conditions must be adiabatically connected. 

					One simple example  the effect of boundary magnetic fields in the sing model. f  modify the Hamiltonian of the sing model at the boundary,  can change the physics in the bulk. Consider

					
					f   positive, the ground state  all spin down; if   negative, it's all spin up. Changing the Hamiltonian at the boundary changed the physics in the bulk.  did th happen t's because there's a level crossing when tuning  from positive to negative; an excited state becomes the ground state, and vice versa. n general, if changing the boundary conditions induces a level crossing, we should expect bulk physics to change.

					So  think any theorem that says the bulk physics between the two systems  identical must only be true if the open and periodic systems are adiabatically connected.

				
					'm trying to understand the wikipedia article on quantum pseudotelepathy. 've been trying to figure out the quantum circuits the players can use to win the game from the wiki article.

					(Level of knowledge: Everything  know about quantum physics  from the computer science side.  can explain  Grover's algorithm works and understand quantum logic circuits, but  have no idea  those map to the underlying physics or  an observable  or  eigen values relate to observables or  wavefunctions come into things or etc.)

					My main stumbling point   the heck  going on in the center column and row. For example, here's my current terrible guess at a circuit (using th online simulator) for the center column:

					

					n the above circuit q1  understood to be entangled with an unseen q1' to be used as part of a corresponding circuit for one of the rows, and the same for q2 and q2'. The circuit  xoring together the X, Y, and Z rotations of the input qubits and using that output to determine the values to place in the cells of the column.

					Th circuit doesn't work.  know it doesn't work because it's never mixing anything; never taking advantage of superpositions. t could be simulated classically, and the game can't be won with certainty classically.

					So... 'm lost. A link to a more introductory explanation would be great. 'm pretty sure 'm msing something related to the pauli XYZ matrices satfying XYZ = -i, and rotations in 3d being order-dependent, but  don't know where to apply those facts.

				
					Groups of particles can interfere with one another; n the double slit experiment  when measuring single photons at the screen each one arrives at the screen in a random manner and they only s the interference pattern once several particles are detected.

					Obviously two waves can obviously interfere with one another, but can two single particles interfere with one another Cohen-Tannoudji writes that 

					
					  light simultaneously behaves like a wave and like a flux of particles
					

					But do two particles constitute a flux of particles  doubt that th could be tested experimentally but if it were so would th constitute a measurement for each particle 

					Here was my thought (Dclaimer: do not have a good idea of  the interference of two single particle states ): 
					To have interference of two single particles you would have to know something about there position to be able to describe their interference pattern hence the measurement.

				
					For an individual free particle that starts localized, the wave function packet spreads over time, so the particle becomes less localized.  Suppose now that we have a gas of those particles inside a box, and we allow them to collide (using some potential): will the wave function of each particle still spread indefinitely, or do collions act as a source of decoherence and the wave function relocalizes again  have heard both arguments by different colleagues, even in textbooks. Has anybody made a computer simulation that ss  would be the best picture

				
					 are coherent states of the harmonic oscillator called coherent Coherent in  sense  are these states so special/useful 

					From Wikipedia: 

					
					  n physics, two wave sources are perfectly coherent if they have a constant phase difference and the same frequency. 
					

				
					n Moore's introductory physics textbook Six deas that Shaped Physics, he describes a set of qualitative rules that first-year physics students can use to sketch energy eigenfunctions in a 1-D quantum-mechanical potential.  Many of these are basically the WKB formalm in dgue;  for example, he introduces a notion of "local wavelength", and justifies the change in amplitude in terms of the classical particle spending more time there.  He also notes that the wavefunction must be "wave-like" in the classically allowed region, and "exponential-like" in the classically forbidden region.

					ever, there  one rule that he uses  seems to work for many (but not all) quantum potentials:

					
					  The th excited state  of a particle in a 1-D potential has  extrema.
					

					Th  true for the particle in a box (either infinite or finite), the simple harmonic oscillator, the bouncing neutron potential, and presumably a large number of other 1-D quantum potentials.  t  not true, ever, for a particle in a double well of finite depth;  the ground state,  has a symmetric wavefunction, has two maxima (one in each potential well) and one minimum (at the midpoint between the wells).

					The following  then are:

					
					Are there conditions can we place on  that guarantee the above quoted statement  true  For example,  the statement true if  has only one minimum  s the statement true if the classically allowed region for any energy  a connected portion of   (The second statement  slightly weaker than the first.)
					Can we generalize th statement so that it holds for any potential   Perhaps there  a condition on the number of maxima and minima of  and  combined
					

					 suspect that if a statement along these lines can be made, it will come out of the orthogonality of the wavefunctions with respect to some inner product determined by the properties of the potential .  But 'm not well-enough versed in operator theory to come up with an easy argument about th.   would also be interested in any interesting counterexamples to th claim that people can come up with.

				
					Can particles have wave nature even when they are at rest  think th  possible due to the formation of standing waves

				
					According to my teacher, an electron  point sized and it does not absorb or release energy. Moreover, my teacher says their orbital absorbs energy rather than the electron. f that  the case, then  about the photoelectric effect, in  electrons release energy after excitement

				
					The expression  gives the probability of finding a particle at a given position. 

					f wave function gives the probabilities of positions,  do we calculate "expectation value of position"

					 don't understand the conceptual difference, we already have a wave function of a position.  Expectation value  related to probabilities. 

					So   the differences between them And  do we calculate expectation value for position, although we have a function for probability of finding a particle at a given position

				
					 am trying to find the domains in physics where solving large systems of equations  computationally expensive. The sparse systems are of my particular interest, where the input matrix A  in GBs (up to 100 GBs).

				
					'm a third year physics undergrad with a very cursory knowledge of quantum mechanics and the formalm involved. For instance,  understand roughly  tensors work and  it means for a tensor to be irreducible, though it would take me a lot of work to apply th knowledge to a problem/extend it past  've already seen.

					As part of a project, 'm studying atomic nuclei in electric and magnetic fields. 'm trying to understand the energy of a nuclear quadrupole's interaction with an electric field gradient. The equation for th 

					

					where  and  each iterate over .

					, the electric quadrupole moment,  given by

					

					(taken from th powerpoint.) An electric quadrupole moment should have nothing to do with nuclear spin... or so  thought, until  ran across the idea of "spin coordinates" and the Wigner-Eckart theorem. Th  roughly all  know about the theorem -- that it exts and that it can some convert between Cartesian and spin coordinates in quantum systems -- and 'd like to understand it better.

					THE SHORT VERSON:  do not need a detailed mathematical understanding of the Wigner-Eckart theorem, but 'm very curious as to the general idea of it. Can anyone think of a plain-Englh (or rather, minimal-math) explanation of the theorem that would make sense to a beginning quantum physics student

				
					Many people have considered alternatives to standard quantum mechanics in  the Hilbert space  over the real instead of the complex numbers - see e.g. here, here, here, here, here, and here. n general, th alternate theory  surpringly similar to standard quantum mechanics over the complex numbers:

					
					  All the greatest hits are still there: interference, entanglement, Bell inequality violations, noncommuting observables, non-unique decompositions of mixed states, universal quantum computing, the Zeno effect, the Gleason and Kochen-Specker theorems.
					

					But 'm not sure  one would generalize the Schrodinger equation to the real setting. n order to get a unitary time-evolution operator, you need to exponentiate an anti-Hermitian operator. The only operator conveniently lying around  the Hamiltonian,   Hermitian. Fortunately, with the complex numbers there's an easy way to convert a Hermitian operator into an anti-Hermitian one: you just multiply it by , as  done in the Schrodinger equation. But with the real numbers,  can't think of any natural way to convert the symmetric Hamiltonian operator into an antymmetric operator  exponentiates to an orthogonal time-evolution operator.  would th work

				
					s coherence conserved under unitary transformation
					As we saw in the process of generating entanglement, coherence between states of the subsystem  transferred to quantum correlations (related to quantum coherence) between the two subsystems. s there a quantity that represents total coherence   conserved under th unitary transformation

					Th question was inspired by reading several other excellent posts on entanglement: Entanglement and coherence, &quot;FTL&quot; Communication with Quantum Entanglement,   coherence in quantum mechanics.

					Note:- ts my understanding/interpretation that the quantum correlations that are in entangled systems are a result of coherence between the subsystems. And in my view entanglement generation  transfer of coherence and the total coherence  conserved.

					Progress:- 
					f there  a quantity  represents quantum coherence in system denoted by , shouldn't it have following properties

					
					, where   density matrix and   any unitary operation.
					
					

				
					Consider the following optimization problem: Given a quantum state , a constant  and a Hermitian operator , find

					

					subject to ,

					where   the fidelity function.

					Does anyone know of a fast algorithm for th problem Even better, an available package that implements such an algorithm

				
					Suppose we have a quantum state  and let's denote the photon number operator  where   the annihilation operator.  Let mean photon number  obviously be finite.  Can  have infinite photon number variance,  we define as follows:

					

					 ask th because it came up in a quantum information theory research problem that  am working on.  Mathematically, it's easy to define  with infinite photon number variance: let  where  such that  with  being the Reimann zeta function.  That ,   a superposition of number states   prepared such that the photon number of the state  dtributed according to the Zipf dtribution.  

					ever,  am wondering if such state (or one like it) can actually ext in nature.  f yes,  would one construct it  f not,  there a concrete reason as to  (ideally,  am looking for a mathematical proof, but would accept a generally accepted well-cited explanation.)  

					 am confused because it seems to me that the requirement if one applies a measurement  with a large  to a coherent state there  a chance of it returning a positive answer, ever small, as coherent states are not "peak photon number" limited (if they were, that chance would be zero starting at some fixed ).  Here the difference  the heavy tail on the photon number.

					Th  my first question to th forum.   am not a physict,  study information theory and have been looking at quantum information theory lately.   know a lot of math, but not necessarily  things work in the "universe we touch".   only have a rudimentary knowledge of quantum mechanics.  Please forgive my ignorance and feel free to refer th question somewhere else if it's not suitable for th forum.

				
					n quantum mechanics, while studying the harmonic oscillator,  learnt about ladder operators. And  realed that if you are able to find or determine any energy state of the quantum harmonic oscillator then, using the ladder operators, you can determine the other energy states as well. ever in none of the texts  read  found the following fact:

					
					  The energy states determined by the above procedure, that , using
					  the ladder operator are the only possible energy states of the
					  harmonic oscillator. There exts no energy state that  not given by the ladder operator.
					

					So th  my question:

					
					  Are the energy states determined by the ladder operator in case of a
					  harmonic oscillator, the only possible energy states s any other energy state possible And   the
					  proof
					

					t  well known that the above-mentioned states are the only possible energy states but  want a rigorous proof that no other state  possible. ever the analytical procedure mentioned in different books s an approximate solution of the Schrodinger equation  can be considered to be rigorous in the sense that it solves the equation to derive the solutions although it considers certain approximations.

					 have searched for th answer in books related to quantum mechanics written by DJ Griffiths, Gasiorowicz, Dirac and online resources like OCW, University of Columbia's courses, caltech.edu, but  couldn't find a proper answer.

				
					 to write down the Dirac equation for the two electrons in the helium atom The problem  the interaction term, as   apparently not Lorent-covariant. 

				
					'm trying to understand  contextuality means in quantum mechanics (-> Kochen-Specker theorem). Can someone describe '(non-)contextuality' in a mathematical way Wikipedia says something like 'the outcome of a measurement depends on its context ( the measurement  made)',   not very satfying. 

				
					 read that it makes a difference whether you calculate  or  in the sense that the maximum energy density with respect to the wavelength does not coincide with the frequency maximum that one would assume to be at . Actually,  do not understand  th  so ( Now,  am only interested in a pure physical explanation, mathematically th  clear and due to the chain rule). Does anybody know  to explain th odd thing

					Some  feel that the core of the question has not been completely answered. Although  can easily look up wikipedia, where the need for the chain rule  explained,  am rather interested in understanding where the following argument breaks down,  seems to be  th question has caused some confusion in the past(as you can see by googling th question):

					So we have  the energy radiated at a given frequency. Now th function has a maximum somewhere, so there  a frequency where a maximal amount of energy  emitted. n other words: f you add the sum of the photon's energies at each frequency that are emitted, you will notice that the maximum  reached at th frquency. Now  tells you basically the same for the wavelength, but again: We know where at  frequency the maximal amount of energy  radiated, so we know the corresponding wavelength. 

					 think there  a need to explain th. 

					f anything  unclear, please let me know.

				
					t seems Kohn-Sham equations are approximate methods to solve many body Schrodinger's equation. They directly split a multi-electron Schrodinger equation into many single-electron Schrodinger equations with exchange-correlation energy to eliminate errors.

					 there  a necessity to introduce Density Functional Theory before give Kohn-Sham equations Or if there  no Density Functional Theory, can the Kohn-Sham equations still be used

				
					A lot of books explain the first order and second order coherence correlations for light. They explain the difference between these using interferometers (Michelson and Hanbury-Brown and Tws (HBT) interferometer). ever, it  odd none of the books mention the essential difference between the two interferometers.  just want to be sure that the difference between the two techniques  that, Michelson has one detector and HBT has two detectors

					Michelson interferes the light and then detects while HBT detects light at different detectors and then checks the correlation.

				
					Undergraduate classical mechanics introduces both Lagrangians and Hamiltonians, while undergrad quantum mechanics seems to only use the Hamiltonian. But particle physics, and more generally quantum field theory seem to only use the Lagrangian, e.g. you hear about the Klein-Gordan Lagrangian, Dirac Lagrangian, Standard Model Lagrangian and so on. 

					  there a mmatch here  does it seem like only Hamiltonians are used in undergraduate quantum mechanics, but only Lagrangains are used in quantum field theory

				
					s it possible to recover the old Bohr-Sommerfeld model from the QM description of the atom by turning off some parameters

					Can we use Ehrenfest's theorem (or some other scheme) to reduce the QM model to the Bohr-Sommerfeld model f not,  not The sue seems to be significant because it might shed some deep conceptual sues. 

				
					 heard in a online quantum mechanics lecture that Schrödinger equation  an instance of the Sturm-Liouville equation and that  the super position of its stationary states gives the most general solution.  have two : 

					
					 can the Schrödinger equation be a Sturm-Liouville equation the former  a partial differential equation and the latter  an ordinary differential equation 
					 am sure that the standard wave equation does not have the property stated above. That , we can not form any solution to the wave equation by the superposition of its stationary states. But can  generale th to the following
					

					
					  The stationary states of a differential equation can be superimposed to form any solution if and only if it  a Sturm-Liouville equation. 
					

					 know that some of   have asked may make no sense, if so please can you explain  th  the case.

				
					My question  not about (pseudo) philosophical debate; it concerns mathematical operations and experimental facts.

					  an observer  are the conditions required to be qualified of observer, both mathematically and experimentally

				
					Yes, as the title states: Do orbitals overlap 

					 mean, if  take a look at th figure...

					

					 see the dtribution in different orbitals. So if for example  take the S orbitals, they are all just a sphere. So wont the 2S orbital overlap with the 1S overlap, making the electrons in each orbital "meet" at some point
					Or have  munderstood something 

				
					 am not a physics student. n one of my courses, some fundamental concepts of Quantum mechanics were needed, so  was going through them when  stumbled upon th.

					t says

					

					s the  in th expression the wave function's conjugate, or something else

				
					've been working on some quantum information theory problems and 've revited Griffith's Quantum Mechanics.  On page 109, he derives the uncertainty principle.  He goes through the steps:

					
					For operators  and , defines :  and  
					Defines variance :  and 
					nvokes Cauchy-Schwarz inequality: 
					Defines  as a complex number : 
					Utilizes the magnitude of  and dcarding the real component (see equation 3.136) : 
					He keeps only the imaginary component and plugs the result from equation 3.136 (step 5) on the right hand side of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality (step 3).   realize that by dcarding the real component he h not violating h inequality in equation 3.135 (step 3), so he can technically do th.  Doing additional commutator math, he gets:
					
					

					Question:

					
					n the Griffith's derivation,  did he dcard the Real component t seems by doing so you now no longer need to know anything about the wave function. .e. you don't need to calculate ) Th would make the math easier from th aspect. 
					

					f you kept the real component, it seems like you'd have a stronger inequality. n fact Wikipedia gives such a derivation yielding : 
					)  

				
					Suppose   an -qubit state and   a vector of coefficients in the Pauli representation (also called the Bloch or coherence vector).  That  
					
					where
					
					and each   a single qubit Pauli operator.

					Now the question , given a vector ,   the most computationally efficient method to determine if the state
					
					 a valid density matrix.

				
					n undergraduate courses the introduction to Hamiltonian mechanics usually starts from a Newtonian view point. One has equations of motions of the form (not sure if it  ok to use covariant notation for forces, but  will do it anyway):

					

					Then assuming certain properties of the potential (e.g. that it  independent of the velocity coordinates) one can s that it can be represented by Hamiltonian mechanics.

					Now my question  if the systems that do not fulfill these conditions (e.g. dsipative systems, two energy conserving examples are given @JohnSidles answer to th question). Can such systems be quantized in any meaningful sense

					  am really trying to achieve with th question  to understand better  quantization actually . We usually have a Hamiltonian system and replace the Poson bracket by commutation or anti-commutation relations and promote the functions to operators. But  th necessary for quantization or  there an underlying principle that can also be applied to other things

				
					'm working through Susskind's "Quantum Mechanics" book (TTM series),   quite like.

					Background

					n Lecture 7 (Chapter 7), he studies a 2-spin system. A single spin has eigenvectors: 

					

					and then a 2-spin state has eigenvectors:

					

					Alice studies the first with an operator  and Bob the second with an operator  (these are really product operators of single-spin  with the identity :  and :

					

					Now for the interesting stuff.

					We can have a product state where the two spins ("subsystems") are independent (no entanglement):

					

					

					where the  and  are separately normalized to  so that if we calculate the expectation for either spin the other does not factor in at all. For example  with no appearance of the .

					Then Susskind says that most randomly chosen coefficients of the  (normalized) will not factorize as in . Then they are entangled. And an example of a maximally entangled state  the singlet state:

					

					Now  so you have zero information about the individual spins. ever, you have information about correlated measurements, because  where by matrix multiplication

					

					Susskind then dcusses  you can test whether a state  entangled or not (and  much entangled) by computing the correlation of operators  and , or checking the eigenvalues of single-state density matricies (,  should be , or checking if the state coefficients  can factorize as in  (they can't).

					Question (rewritten after helpful answers by tparker and Emilio Panty)

					Aren't these entanglement tests all relative to the chosen 4x4 operators,  and ,  reflect a particular choice of dividing the state into subsystems

					nstead of a subdivion based on the two spins, we can subdivide based on  and the triplet states  and .
					Let's change bas with a similarity matrix .
					n th new bas,  are bas vectors and 

					

					

					We consider the new bas vectors as product vectors omorphic to single spins  can each be in states labeled  and  (so as not to confuse with  and ) and we get that

					

					Since  and  are of the form of product operators, we can let them define a new subdivion of the full system. Each new subsystem no longer corresponds to an electron at a specific location, as in the original divion. A and B can be thought to operate on one label each (A on the first + or -, B on the second).

					With th new subdivion, each of  are not entangled.

					To conclude

					Entanglement  in the eye of the beholder (4x4 operator, or subsystem divion). Yes

				
					 find myself often puzzled with the different definitions one gives to "semiclassical limits" in the context of quantum mechanics, in other words limits that eventually turn quantum mechanics into classical mechanics. 

					

					n a hand-wavy manner

					
					Classical or semiclassical limit corresponds to the limit of taking 
					Often when talking about the correspondence principle, the semiclassical limit  obtained in the limit of large quantum numbers (large orbits and energies).
					

					

					More precely

					
					Exemplary source of confusion: One way to s   describes a classical limit,  as follows: 
					

					Take the  Schrödinger equation for a particle of mass  in a potential :

					\

					By inserting  in the Schrödinger equation above, and simplifying for , we obtain:

					
					Now taking , the above just becomes the classically well known Hamilton-Jacobi equation, where  describes Hamilton's principal function or the action:

					
					Using such result, then we can use an  expansion of  in the second equation. Unfortunately  fail to see  reaching the Hamilton-Jacobi equation necessarily implies a classical behavior!

					
					Alternatively one talks about classical limits of QM by saying:  Planck's quantum  becomes very small compared with values of the Lagrangian action integral (Feynman's path integral formalm).  probably shouldn't ask th (since the dcussion  rather vague here), but  there any neat way of demonstrating the above idea mathematically (e.g. by sing whether such limit necessarily leads to quantum decoherence and hence the classical trajectories become dominant.)
					Finally, are the two statements of  and taking the limit of high quantum numbers some equivalent (i.e. a reformulation of one another) 
					

					Of course any other ways (whether physical or mathematical) of thinking about and understanding semiclassical limits of quantum mechanics are also welcomed as answer.

				
					Let's denote by  some wavefunction at time . Then let's define the time evolution operator  through

					

					and Hamiltonian  through 

					

					(We have set .)

					Question.

					  the relation between  and , given that  doesn't depend explicitly on 

					Attempts.

					t  well-known that the answer   for some scalar . 

					Some sources postulate it follows from operator equation  but we cannot integrate it like we could an ordinary differential equation  (at least  don't know  to integrate operators!).

					Then we could also "guess" the solution  and verify by inserting into , but then we still need to s that th  the general solution, i.e.,  spans the set of all solutions. Also th approach doesn't enlighten as to  we chose that particular guess.

				
					'm just a student of grade 11 but,  was interested in knowing about Physics much deeper. n order to start my interest in Physics,  watched th video of Quantum Physics NOVA : Quantum Physics(NOVA)

					 have some  in mind : 

					 s Quantum Mechanics also applicable for massive objects like Human Beings, Animals etc. (in comparon with the small atoms)  

					  much does Quantum Mechanics affects the rules that we have studied yet, like in Newtonian Mechanics and Classical Mechanics  

					 Has Quantum Mechanics been successful in defining the movement of atoms and other negligibly small objects like sub-atomic particles etc.  Or  there something yet to come... 

					 While,  know that any theory  simply NOT based on calculations or only on experiments. Has Quantum Mechanics been able to define all the rules with the help of Experiments etc. 

					 As a student, 'm basically confused that  theory  the most accurate and applicable in real life. So,  theory  the most accurate and applicable to the reality 

					 After watching the video (linked at the start),  was not able to conclude whether Quantum Mechanics  based on accuracy or on probability  

					 'm sorry,  understand that these  are much broad and may be concluded as foolh or meaningless , but, as a student these were the   came in my mind.  will appreciate a lot if anyone can help me in clearing my doubts! 

				
					 have been on Wikipedia reading up on the various interpretations of quantum mechanics.  am entering my final semester as an undergraduate and have taken a QM course, so  am familiar with the basic theory, although  can't say 've done extensive reading on these.

					ever, it  my understanding that different interpretations of QM do not yield falsifiable predictions, so  can anyone really support any particular one For example,  have heard people ridicule the Copenhagen interpretation, saying  preposterous it  that the possible outcomes/eigenstates that are NOT measured simply cease to ext, that they dappear from the universe... but then these scientts will claim that the universe splits at the moment of measurement, creating a universe for each possible outcome/eigenstate. Have they not made as bold (and perhaps ridiculous) of a claim as those who support the Copenhagen interpretation No experiment will verify one or the other.

					So my question , by  logic does one come to support a particular interpretation of quantum mechanics

				
					n graphene we call the low energy excitations around the Dirac point Dirac fermions,  are massless. 
					s th just by convention or  there any further differences between massless Dirac fermions and Weyl fermions

				
					Two fundamental equations regarding wave-particle duality are:
					

					We talk about de Broglie wavelength,  it meaningful to talk about de Broglie frequency ( above) and de Broglie velocity ()
					Are these two equations independent or can one derive one from the other Or mid-way, does one impose constraint on other n case of light or photons we can relate frequency and wave,  there similar interpretation in case frequency and wavelengths in above equations Comparing with that of light, if we multiple  and  we get velocity,  does th velocity mean here

					f we do the above calculation for an average human,  would be the meaning of  and  Are we jiggling with that 

				
					https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Position_and_momentum_space

					https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pontryagin_duality

					 am trying to understand logic behind the uncertainity principle. And as far as  understand, it follows mathematically if we assume that wave function in momentum space  Fourier transform of the wave function in position space.  tried to dig in and find out  they should be related so, and the only explanation  could find out was Pontryagin duality.

				
					 have calculated the total Gross-Pitaevskii energy for a 2D Bose-Einstein condensate in an harmonical trap, using a variational gaussian wave function with a variational parameter b. Now  want to compare the variational energy to the Thomas-Fermi result. 
					 know that the Thomas-Fermi approximation means that you neglect the total kinetic energy in comparon to the interaction energy, but  was wondering  to do it specifically in th case.  namely have three different possibilities in mind:

					1) Just remove the kinetic energy term from the energy expression  found with the variational wave function, and keep the value of the variational parameter b as it was before.

					2) Remove the kinetic energy term from the energy expression  found with the variational wave function, and calculate a new value for the variational parameter b for th specific case.

					3) Use the Thomas-Fermi approximation in the GP equation to find a new expression for the wave function (instead of the one  used before) and use th one to calculate the energy.

					 can't seem to decide  of these three  the right one. Can anyone give a convincing argument as to  method  should use

				
					Almost a century past, has the Copenhagen nterpretation (C) undergone any modification n other words, has any of its underlying principles been reformulated since

					

					The notable (usual) examples that come to mind when one brings up C, can be among the followings: 

					
					Collapse of the wavefunction (often considered as too hand-wavy as the concepts of collapse and the necessaity of "wave" mechanics in QM are questionable)
					Physical dtinction of "observation", "interaction" and "measurement" of quantum systems.
					Decoherence of the superposition of states and Bohr's correspondence principle
					etc.
					

					Please feel free to touch upon any of the above aspects of C.

				
					The Liouville-von Neumann equation for the density matrix :

					

					while in the Heenberg picture:

					

					if we adopt some kind of conservation law (like in classical theory), i.e.

					 Then we have

					

					by replacing , we can directly reach the von Neumann equation.

					s th derivation correct if it ,   the physical meaning behind  then

				
					Setup

					Suppose we have some Hamiltonian    known to exhibit spontaneous symmetry breaking (SSB), at least in some parameter regime. For simplicity, we might consider the 2D sing model below its critical temperature.

					Now suppose we add some weak perturbation such that the new Hamiltonian 

					

					where we assume that   bounded above by , , and   a dimensionless parameter controlling the strength of the perturbation. Note that  do not assume that  preserves the symmetries of .

					Question

					Can we say anything about whether or not  will also exhibit SSB Furthermore, if it does exhibit SSB,  are the new symmetry breaking states related to the old ones Are they the same, at least up to some  error f there  a phase transition, are the critical parameters the same

					 believe the folklore answer to th question  " will still exhibit SSB for , and the new symmetry breaking states are the same as the old ones", at least in the simple case of the sing model. ever,  would be interested to hear if any of th has been rigorously proven, again even if only for some specific models.

					Edit

					 will attempt to clarify my question.  am mainly interested in the equilibrium states of the perturbed Hamiltonian, and whether they break the symmetry of the original Hamiltonian, while still forming a closed space under the action of the original symmetry group.

					Copying from my earlier comments,  believe one example of where th happens  with dcrete time crystals. For concreteness let us consider a many-body localized time crystal, following th paper as a reference. There one drives a system of qubits periodically with a two-pulse protocol. Th can be described by the Floquet operator

					

					where   given by

					

					with the parameters ,  and  chosen uniformly from ,  and . f  then the spins are exactly flipped during the first pulse. n th case, if one takes some observable, say  for one of the spins, and calculates the Fourier spectrum of its expectation value, one will see a peak at , where   the drive frequency. n th way, we say that the dcrete time translation symmetry  spontaneously broken.

					The relevance of th example to my question  that, even if  for some small , th peak in the Fourier spectrum remains pinned at , even though naively one would expect it to move if the spins aren't perfectly flipped. Th  observed in experiments such as th one.

					  am wondering   common th "robustness to error"  in conventional examples of SSB.

				
					Ladder operators are found in various contexts (such as calculating the spectra of the harmonic oscillator and angular momentum) in almost all introductory Quantum Mechanics textbooks. And every book  have consulted starts by defining the ladder operators. Th makes me wonder  do these operators have their respective forms .e.   the ladder operator for the harmonic oscillator

					

					and not something else

					On a similar note, does anyone know the physict/paper who/ proposed th method Wikipedia mentions Dirac, but  have been unable to find any leads.

				
					Suppose we have the following Slater determinant:
					\
					where  creates an electron in state  with spin  and, in general, .  want to evaluate  using second quantization. We can express the  operator as 
					\
					with 
					\
					Since   an eigenfunction of , evaluating   terms becomes trivial and the problem reduces to the evaluation of  . n the standard restricted Hartree-Fock method,  and it  easy to s that  using the canonical anticommutation relations.   (unrestricted Hartree-Fock) we must have that  (th  verified in books) where   the number of  electrons and  and .

					My question  then, specifically,  do we obtain  using the anticommutation relations of second quantization f  try to use these anticommutation relations just in the way they are written in textbooks  do not get the right answer. Clearly,  am getting something wrong or some special consideration needs to be taken into account when . f someone can s me  to correctly use second quantization to get the right answer here,  would appreciate it a lot. 

				
					Time-Scale Calculus,  a theory  unifies ordinary (plus fractional and q-) calculus with dcrete (and finite differences) calculus.

					n a sense, in a similar way the Lebesgue integral (or Riemann–Stieltjes integral) unifies both continous integration and dcrete summation.

					The rationale  to use time-scales (or measure chains)  include continous (dense) points and dcrete or semi-dcrete (scattered, olated) points.

					Even Variational Calculus (and Euler-Lagrange equations) and Noether's Theorem have been (recently) generaled (more or less) to time-scale calculus.

					Any references to (unified) formulation of Mechanics (Classical, Quantum, Stattical) in time-scale calculus (and their relevance)

					UPDATE:

					A initial survey paper (2002) on "R. Agarwal, M. Bohner, D. O’Regan and A. Peterson, Dynamic equations on time scales: a
					survey, J. Comput. Appl. Math. 141 (2002), no. 1-2, 1–26."

				
					Operators can be cyclically interchanged inside a trace:
					
					Th means the trace of a commutator of any two operators  zero:
					
					But  about the commutator of the position and momentum operators for a quantum particle
					On the one hand: 
					while on the other hand: 
					 does th work out

				
					Having defined the expectation value of position as follows 
					 
					The time derivative of the expectation value   derived in my literature in the following way:

					

					From here it  straightforward algebra and calculus to the answer.
					
					 strikes me as odd  the fact that the author didn't write

					

					Some, the position   treated as a constant. There  no explanation to  th  the case. From above,   some unchanging in time and the only thing that alters the expectation value  the wave function. Th might be the case but then   the interpretation of 

					 doesn't  vary in time

				
					 have for quite some time now tried to find a satfactory answer to th, but  haven't yet. n perturbation theory, with small parameter , we expand the eigenstate as

					

					Where   an eigenstate of the unperturbed Hamiltonian. The problem  that when there  degeneracy, there  a choice of these eigenstates.  know the answer  that they are chosen to be eigenvectors of the perturbing Hamiltonian, but my question  .

				
					Let us choose to postulate (e.g. considering the analogy of the Hamiltonian being a generator of time evolution in classical mechanics)
					
					where   the (unitary, linear) evolution operator and  the Hamiltonian (the most general version of ; i.e. time-dependent with instances at different times non-commuting).

					n S-picture, one can easily s that (1)  equivalent to
					
					where   a state,  and .

					n H-picture, it  straightforward to s that (1) implies
					
					where   an observable and  (and also  implying that the time dependence of   purely explicit, i.e.  with ).

					My question:  it possible to obtain (1) from (3), i.e. to s that (1)  equivalent to (3) 

					Some thoughts on th: it  extensively mentioned in literature that both pictures yield same answers. Therefore, it should be possible to obtain (1) from (3) since (1) and (2) are equivalent. Assuming (3), the best  can get  that given an observable , the operator
					
					must be skew-Hermitian. 

				
					Let there be given two Hamiltonians

					

					Let's suppose that for big big , the potentials are asymptotically similar in the sense that the quotient

					

					Then if we quantize these Hamiltonians, 

					  

					since the potentials  and  are asymptotically close to each other, does it mean that for big quantum number 
					

					at least in one dimension

				
					n BCS theory, one takes the model Hamiltonian

					

					Th Hamiltonian clearly conserves particle number. Thus, we expect the ground state to have a definite particle number. t's possible the ground state  degenerate, but that could be lifted by perturbing .

					Then, one makes a mean field approximation. One replaces 

					with 

					Th doesn't make any sense to me. Th seems to be saying that we know the terms  and  don't fluctuate much around their mean values. But we also know that in the actual ground state, the mean values are given by  since the ground state will have definite particle number. Thus the fluctuations about the mean value aren't small compared to the mean value.

					 can th mean field treatment be justified

				
					'm a bit confused over whether the parity operator should always square to one. My impression was that if  was a representation of the Poincare group, then the parity operator  was defined to be  where   the improper parity Lorentz transformation. Since , th automatically implies . Using the group multiplication law, one can prove everything else, e.g. that  flips momentum but not spin, and that  commutes with .

					On the other hand, 've also heard that parity can act on a field by multiplying it by a phase , called its intrinsic parity,  can be any phase, not just . 've also heard that parity can be violated, so it doesn't necessarily commute with .

					Weinberg defines  exactly as  do, but when he comes to these phases he gives the cryptic remark

					
					  t  easy to say that space inversion  has the group multiplication law ; ever, the parity operator that  conserved may not be th one, but rather may differ from it by a phase transformation of some sort.
					

					Similarly, Schwartz's textbook gives an even more cryptic remark:

					
					  You might expect that the action of  and  should be determined from representation theory. ever, recall that technically spinors do not transform under the Lorentz group , only its universal cover , so we are not guaranteed that  and  will act in any nice way. n fact they do not. [...] n any representation, we should have .
					

					Both Weinberg and Schwartz seem to dance around the sue of actually defining  parity , and Schwartz's passage seems almost self-contradictory.

					For simplicity, let's ignore the case of spinor fields and focus on scalar fields, so there are no sues with projective representations. Then my  are:

					
					 exactly  parity defined f it's defined the way  said above,  can you avoid having  commute with  f it n't,  the definition unique and  do you recover familiar results, like   flips momentum but not spin
					n general, 's wrong with postulating the particles to form a representation of the Poincare group with improper Lorentz transformations
					

				
					While explaining the quantum adiabatic theorem recently,  appealed to a thermodynamic analogy: when slowly contracting the walls containing a classical gas, the relaxation timescale can be taken to be fast, so the system remains always in thermal equilibrium. By analogy, the quantum system remains always in a stationary state.

					The hidden assumption here  that stationary states (eigenstates of the Hamiltonian) are in some sense attractors of the system: that a system in some energy-superposition will, over time, relax to a single energy eigenstate. 

					s th actually true t seems like maybe it n't, since for example coherent states of the harmonic oscillator are stable (). Maybe it's true in neighbourhoods around the stationary states only

				
					n stattical mechanics renormalization  often related to coarse-graining  in turn allows to calculate some macroscopic states. The resulting macroscopic description  sometimes called emergent. ever, in general, the emergent properties do not always result from the granularity of description. For example, critical behavior and long-range correlations are not supposed to be affected by coarse-graining. Without going into mathematical details,  am trying to get an intuition that connects renormalization and emergence in general.  are the types of emergence that can not be described via renormalization s quantum decoherence one of them 

				
					Suppose the ground states of a system are doubly degenerate due to an anti-unitary symmetry ,  are  and . f the system  an one-dimensional Fermion system and anti-unitary symmetry  a particle-hole symmetry, the degeneracy  often related to a pair of Majorana zero modes. 

					t  known that exchanging two Majoranas would introduce a  phase into  and . Do these phases are the Berry phase  s th phase  related to the trace of the exchange Or  it guaranteed to be 

					One more question: Does it make sense to calculate  when   one of the two degenerate ground states

				
					Backstory:   learned about chemical reactions, there were two types of molecular bonds: onic, where an atom or compound molecule with a low valence number loses those valence electron(s) to one or more other compounds with a high valence number,  it then bonds with; and Covalent, where valence electrons are "shared" between two or more atoms that don't want to actually "give up" their electrons to the other atom.

					At first, that worked. But then, as  casually poked around Wikipedia and other sites looking to further my knowledge,  found evidence refuting th clear divion. For instance, the explanation of pH on Wikipedia states that pure liquid water, a substance   a textbook example of covalent atomic bonds, n't actually covalent, but an equal mixture of hydronium (H3O+) and hydroxide (OH-) ions. The explanation  that liquid water, as a polar solvent, actually dsolves itself, and hydrogen ions (naked protons) travel relatively freely among atoms of water in its liquid and even gaseous states, forming hydronium where the hydrogen atom  gained, and hydroxide where it's lost.

					Another example; benzene. t's composed of 6 carbons and 6 hydrogens. Carbon wants to get four electrons to fill its outer valence shell. The hydrogen fills one, ostensibly by sharing. t gets the other three by sharing electrons with its two neighbors. Now, three electrons don't divide by two; classically, we're taught that the double and single bonds alternate, but really, the behavior of th construct indicates that the last valence electron of each carbon atom  itself shared between its two neighbors, giving each carbon "one and a half" bonds with either of its neighbors. That sounds like "sharing", but not in the way normally described.

					Now, there are other pretty concrete examples of covalence; diatomic gas molecules like O2 and N2 each have a mostly-full valence shell and just want a couple more valence electrons, and so in their diatomic bonds each atom "pulls" the other's valence electrons into its own valence shell without losing its own. But, "highly covalent" bonds like th seem to be more an exception to the rule than a rule unto itself.

					So, maybe from a deeper level, 'm asking: where  the "dividing line" between bonds called "ionic" and bonds called "covalent" s there a primary property of the bond or the resulting substance that can be given as evidence to say definitively "th  a(n) ______ bond Or  there indeed some "grey area" where the behavior of electrons between atoms could be described both ways at the same time

				
					'm familiar with representations of the Lorentz group, that take the form:

					\

					where  for  are the generators of rotations in the i-j plane (or in the k ax) and  for  are the generators of boosts in the i direction. By combining th two sets of generators into  one can make two invariant subgroups spanned by the new generators, both satfying su(2) algebra. Then finding every representation  just finding every  representation of each su(2) algebra.

					ever, because boosts are non-compact, th transformations are not unitary so are not fit fot quantum mechanics. Th  when  get confused,  does the Poincaré group solve th if Lorentz group finite representations acts on finite dimensional objects such as spinors  or vectors ...  does the infinite dimensional representations of the Poincaré group act on  are the generators written 

					 get the idea that in infinite dimensional representations the transfomations acts on fields of vectors rather than on vectors, but since transformations are rigid (i.e. don't depend on space-time coordinates) rotating or boosting a vector field seems to be just rotating each vector in a different point in space in the same way, so  don't see the difference.

					've try reading introductory books on QFT such as Schwartz, Ryder, Peskin or Maggiore but  don't fully understand the implications of infinite dimensional representations of the Poincaré group. 

					'm sorry for any errors th might have, 'm just starting to study group theory and particle physics and it's overwhelming sometimes.

				
					Can anyone give me a quantum mechanical explanation of the theory of valence (i.e.  atoms bond just enough to have a complete orbital)

					EDT: To clarify,  already have an idea of  atoms bond, and the molecular orbit makes sense to me. The problem  that the valence bond theory provides a simple and fairly accurate description for when a molecule  stable. To make th more concrete:   CH_4 more stable than CH_3 or CH_5. Looking up the former on wikipedia,  see a better way of phrasing the question might be:  are free radicals reactive (Should  change the title)

				
					'm quite surpred by these regularly spaced rings of alternating brightness in a fluorescent tube. These are also moving along the tube and only appear when the voltage  low.  are these and does the pattern have anything to do with AC frequency

					

				
					t's folklore dating back to von Neumann and Wigner that time-dependent Hamiltonian systems tend not to have level crossings of their energy eigenvalues.

					ever, we can of course consider smoothly varying Hamiltonians  have been engineered to have level crossings. These don't even have to be complicated. For instance, let  and take any Hermitian operator . Then we can construct an example Hamiltonian
					
					on a 1D spin chain. The all-up state and the all-down are ground-states for ; but for  such symmetry  typically broken, so that for  we expect to have eigenstates close to the all-up and all-down states but with dtinct eigenvalues.

					After some investigation, 've come to suspect the following:

					
					  Conjecture. f  has a level crossing between energy levels  at some time , and   the projection onto the span of the - and -eigenstates, then there are well-defined (continuously varying) eigenvectors through the level crossing only if  &mdash; that , if the change in the Hamiltonian at the level crossing  only a change in the values of the two crossing eigenvalues, for a common pair of eigenvectors.
  
					  Specifically: if th equality does not hold, then any (unitary) time-dependent change-of-bas operator from the standard bas to the energy eigenbas of  at time    continuous for some neighborhood  will oscillate infinitely rapidly as .
					

					
					s th true generally (f not, can you point to a counterexample)
					s th a known result, and  there a reference that  can refer to where th question  treated clearly, and more-or-less formally for bounded operators (e.g. on finite-dimensional systems)
					

				
					s the universe finite, both in the sense of being a closed spacetime manifold, as viewed from the macro level, but also in the sense of being fully dcrete and finite in all of its intricate quantum level construction

					The most popular current research, i.e. string theory, builds a machinery on top of a continous notion of spacetime. Would a more accurate model of the physical world have to build on top of a finite, dcrete, network like, relational spacetime model   

				
					 does a light wave look like 

					The only models  can seem to find online are 2D waves, they just look like sin() graphs.

					 have seen the models of the two components of "light waves" (electric field and magnetic field) and they are represented on a 3D Cartesian coordinate system, but they are still just two 2D waves.

					

					Surely light n't really FLAT like th  it 

					 guess  have always assumed it pules out in all directions greater then lesser as it travels, giving off the shape that you see during a sonic boom:

					

					 have drawn   picture to be a 3D model of the electric field of a light wave as it travels from left to right:

					
					(cone image from: http://www.presentation-process.com/images/3d-powerpoint-cone.jpg)

					s th an accurate representation of  the 3D radiation emitting from a light beam looks like, like a 3D wave  (Obviously it would be more wavey, using a 3D cone graphic to create th diagram caused the edges to look spiked and sharp, a better object to use would have been something like a bullet (3D parabola) but 'm not the best with photoshop).

					

					Also, if th  a some accurate model of light wave pulsing in 3D,  does the magnetic wave look like in model form Do they just overlap with possibly a slightly larger or smaller amplitude but the same maxima and minima locations along t (x-ax in my model)

				
					Schrödinger solutions are usually if not always of the type:  (we use the separation of variables method to arrive at the time independent Schroedinger equation).

					 was trying to find a non-separable solution. To th purpose  tried the following method: compose the product T(t)*X(x) into another function. For example:  or  or  and so on.

					Then  try first time derivative of  position derivative of  (trying to find a solution for the null potential. n addition  know  need a constant but it's for simplification).

					 arrive at a differential equation.  try simple solutions for one of the functions like .  get to a very difficult differential equation that can't be solved even with a
					look at:
					http://www.amazon.com/Handbook-Solutions-Ordinary-Differential-Equations/dp/1584882972

					f there any obvious non separable solution that  am msing

				
					Let a quantum system be given  has two subsystems  and  so that the Hilbert space decomposes .

					f the state of the system  , one defines the classical correlation with respect to measurements on  as

					

					where the maximum  taken over all measuremenst on  with probabilities  and with post-measurement states , and where   and .

					The idea here  simple:

					
					Prior to measurement the state of    and the uncertainty on its specification  .
					f upon a specific measurement   conducted on  one has  obtained result  the post-measurement state of    and the uncertainty on its specification  . Therfore, the uncertainty on the state of  has reduced by 
					As such, the mean information about the state of  gained in the process of measurement  
					Finally, we may say that the maximum information we can obtain about  by measuring   the maximum of such quantity over all measurements on ,   .
					

					That's fine, but  th  called "classical correlation" and not the total correlation

					 mean, for me correlation means the following

					
					  f whenever we observe  we gain knowledge of  then they are correlated.
					

					The only way to observe   to measure something.

					So  th quantity  classical correlation and not full correlation n  sense quantum correlation differs from th and  then quantum correlations agree with the usual meaning of correlation

				
					 have a thought experiment  in my understanding leads to faster than light messaging, and  had hoped the physics.SE community could help me resolve it.  should say that most of my understanding of quantum mechanics comes from these lectures by Feynman, although  am a mathematics major and can mostly see through the layman's filter he puts on. (He does that marvelously, by the way.  wh  was that good at it.)

					Say you have a light source, two semi-transparent mirrors with 4% chance of reflecting a photon and one sensor. f you put the two mirrors parallel to eachother and shine light on it, then the sensor will have between  and almost  chance of regtering a reflected photon, depending on the dtance between the mirrors. Set the mirrors up for maximal constructive interference.

					f you have full control of the timing of the light source (sending, say, one photon exactly once every millecond), and the sensor  capable of differing by the time it takes the photon to be reflected from the first mirror and from the second mirror, then as  understand it the interference phenomenon would dappear. You will just get a (bit less than)  chance of regtering a photon.

					Here's the problem: f  have another sensor on the other side of the mirrors, then it would, depending on the time resolution of the first sensor, either regter  or  (i.e. the rest) of the photons sent by the source. f the first sensor  very far away from the mirrors and second sensor, then changing time resolusion (or just swapping the sensor) would have an immediate effect on the number of photons regtered at the second sensor.

					 don't believe th to be true, but as far as my understanding of quantum mechanics goes, that's the result  get.

				
					n Sakurai's Modern Quantum Mechanics (2nd ed) p.99, he says

					
					  We know from the theory of partial differential equations that
					  (time-independent Schrodinger equation) subject to boundary
					  condition ( as
					  ) allows nontrivial solutions only for
					  a dcrete set of values of . t  in th sense that the
					  time-independent Schrodinger equation yields the quantization of
					  energy levels. Once the partial differential equation
					  (time-independent Schrodinger equation)  written, the problem of
					  finding the energy levels of microscopic physical systems  as
					  straightforward as that of finding the charactertic frequencies of
					  vibrating strings or membranes.
					

					Although 've found a paper (http://www.scientificexploration.org/journal/jse_21_1_hocking.pdf) about th, the relationship  still not very explicit. So would you please explain briefly about the relationship between the Schrodinger equation and string/membranes Many thanks.

				
					 have a huge interest in learning quantum mechanics and other advanced physics topics. Also  need to learn the mathematics for physics as well such as linear algebra and calculus. So please could you guys tell me some resources or books  do not dumb down content, but are appropriate for absolute beginners like me. Also may  please get resources or books for QED and QFT, and other advanced physics topics. Thank you. 

				
					The time ordering for the purpose of quantum mechanics  e.g. given by

					

					where  and  denote the time-coordinates of the points x and y. 

					Now strictly speaking, the above definition works by pattern recognition -  can tell the operators  and  appart.  could either imagine one could write down the quantum mechanical theory by repacing all occurences of  by function notation  or that there  a computable procedure to make sense of  whenever 'm given an operator , i.e. . 

					  the case

				
					Every density matrix of  qubits can be written in the following way
					
					where  are real numbers and  are the Pauli matrices. n particular for one particle () it  the Bloch representation.

					Such representation  used e.g. in a work by Horodecki arXiv:quant-ph/9607007 (they apply  to investigate the entanglement of two qubit systems). t  called decomposition in the Hilbert-Schmidt bas.

					The question  if there  any good reference for such representation for qubits - either introducing it for quantum applications or a review paper
					 am especially interested in the constrains on .

				
					'm just trying to wrap my head around the following paragraph (taken from "The Quantum Theory of Fields", Weinberg, Vol. 1, Ch.2): 

					
					  There  always a trivial symmetry transformation, , represented
					  by the identity operator . Th operator , of course, unitary
					  and linear. Continuity then demands that any symmetry (like a rotation
					  or translation or Lorentz transformation) that can be made trivial by
					  a continuous change of some parameters (like angles or dtances or
					  velocities) must be represented by a linear unitary operator  rather
					  than one that  antilinear and antiunitary.
					

					My understanding of th  that, if when specifying a system using parameters  you find that a symmetry transformation  trivial - i.e. it  explicitly equivalent to the trivial symmetry transformation ,   unitary and linear - then if you specify that system using a different set of parameters  you will find that the symmetry transformation  still linear and unitary. The only restriction  that the new parameters are connected continuously to the old ones, i.e. , where   a continuous function.

					 exactly do you prove th 'd appreciate even a hint at a rough proof.

				
					Usually when we talk about entanglement, we mean entangled spin states (of electrons) or polarizations (of photons). My  are: 

					Does pair production guarantee the product electron and positron entangled

					f there's no observer measuring either particle, can we say the types, or charge, of the particles are also entangled, with a wavefunction like: 

				
					 an observable/selfadjoint operator  has only dcrete eigenvalues, the eigenvectors are orthogonal each other. Similarly, when an observable  has only continuous eigenvalues, the eigenvectors are orthogonal each other.

					But  if  has both of dcrete eigenvalues and continuous ones

					

					CONTEXT:

					According to my teacher, an observable  can have dcrete eigenvalues and continuous ones simultaneously.

					

					

					Completeness  th.

					

					Now the following are true.

					

					

					

					QUESTON:

					Are  and  orthogonal each other  mean,  the equation below true

					

					 want th to be true.  have to use th to prove the expectation value formula
					

				
					So we know that in Quantum Mechanics we require the operators to be Hermitian, so that their eigenvalues are real () because they correspond to observables.

					 about a non-Hermitian operator , among the others, also has real () eigenvalues Would they correspond to observables f no,  not

				
					n classical mechanics, physical quantities, such as, e.g. the coordinates of position, velocity, momentum, energy, etc, are real numbers, but in quantum mechanics they become operators.   th so           

				
					The hydrogen molecular ion (a.k.a. dihydrogen cation)   the simplest possible molecular system, and as such you'd hope to be able to make some leeway in solving it, but it turns out that it's much harder than you'd hope. As it turns out, if you phrase it in spheroidal coordinates then the stationary Schrödinger equation for the electron (with stationary nuclei),
					
					becomes separable, but - last  heard - the resulting equations do not admit exact analytical equations in anything you'd call either closed form or special-function-like. 

					(More specifically, the separation  not as clean as in the hydrogen atom, where you get an angular and then a radial eigenvalue problems, but instead you get a coupled 'bi-eigenvalue problem' that's harder to solve.)

					On the other hand, Wikipedia lts the system in its Lt of quantum-mechanical systems with analytical solutions with a note that there are "Solutions in terms of generalized Lambert W function", so maybe 'm msing something. 

					Tracing the Wikipedia references leads to arXiv:physics/0607081,  seems to me to only (i) only work for the eigenvalue, not the eigenfunctions, (ii) work with generalizations of the Lambert  function, and (iii) not be particularly closed-form either. ever,  may be msing the end of some reference trail here.

					So: are there known eigenfunctions of  in exact analytical form, or even in terms of special functions (whose definition goes beyond "the solution of th given equation")

					f the answer to th  negative, then that's probably a very tall order to prove, since statements of the kind "there  no result of that type in the literature" are inherently hard to tie down. n that case, though,  will settle for a thorough exploration of the literature pointed at by the Wikipedia claim, and an explanation of  it does and does not provide.

					

					Edit, given the large number (currently 8) of non-answers that th thread has received. Apparently some clarifications are in order.

					
					The question of whether a given solution does or does not qualify for the description of 'analytic', 'closed-form' or 'exact'  obviously a subjective call to a nontrivial extent. ever, there are a lot of interesting shades of gray between 'the solution  an elementary function' and 'if you define the special function  as the solution of the equation, then the equation  solvable in terms of special functions', and  want to know where th problem sits between those two extremes.

					As such,  would like to set the bar at functions that include at least one nontrivial connection. Thus,  would argue that a direct Frobenius-method series solution  not really sufficient if it has no further analys and no additional connections to other properties of the resulting functions. (n particular, if one wants to allow series solutions with no further connections, then it  worth considering carefully  other systems then become 'solvable' to the same degree.)
					t  well known that there are perfectly good approximate and numerical solutions to th problem, including several that are systematically convergent; moreover, even if an analytical solution exts, those numerical and approximate solutions are probably more useful and quite possibly more accurate than the 'exact' solution. That  irrelevant to the question at hand,   simply about  far (or lack thereof) one can take 'exact' analytical methods in quantum mechanics.
					Obviously the Schrödinger equation at stake here  an approximation (as it ignores e.g. nuclear motion and relativtic effects such as spin-orbit coupling and other fine-structure effects), but that  irrelevant to the question of whether th specific problem has exact solutions or not.
					

				
					The planck length  defined as . So it  a combination of the constants    believe are all Lorentz invariants. So  think the Planck length should also be a Lorentz invariant! 
					But there seem to be some confusion about that, see e.g. the following paper
					Magueijo 2001: Lorentz invariance with an invariant energy scale:

					
					  The combination of gravity , the
					  quantum  and relativity  gives re
					  to the Planck length,  or its
					  inverse, the Planck energy  . These
					  scales mark thresholds beyond 
					  the old description of spacetime
					  breaks down and qualitatively new
					  phenomena are expected to appear. ...
					  Th gives re immediately to a
					  simple question: in whose reference
					  frame are  and  the thresholds for
					  new phenomena
					

					But if   a Lorentz invariant their  no question about that.   the same in all reference frames! Another confusing sue  that the Planck mass (from  the Planck length  derived)  often derived by setting equal the Compton length  ( a Lorentz invariant 4-length) and the Schwarzschild length  (  believe  not a Lorentz invariant, since in the derivation of the Schwarzschild metric it  assumed to be a 3-length, measuring a space dtance). But since Compton wavelength and Schwarzschild radius are not lengths of the same kind  think such a derivation  not valid. 
					So my question : 

					s the Planck length a Lorentz invariant and if so,  to derive it then without using the Compton wave length and the Schwarzschild radius 

				
					'm a quarter of the way towards finhing a basic quantum mechanics course, and  see no mention of force, after having done the 1-D Schrodinger equation for a free particle, particle in an infinitely deep potential well, and the linear harmonic oscillator. 

					There was one small mention of the fact that expectation values obey classical laws.  was wondering  we don't make more use of th fact. For example, in the linear harmonic oscillator problem, one could obtain the temporal evolution of  using the classical expression , and if we could get the time-evolution of  and tack th on, we could re-create the Gaussian and get back . Of course, that last part may not be very easy. 

					 was just wondering if anybody has tried doing something like th, or if there an obvious flaw in thinking about it th way.

				
					n the research field of Many-body Localization (MBL), people are always talking about the eigenstate thermalization hypothes (ETH). ETH asserts that for a olated quantum system, all many-body eigenstates of the Hamiltonian are thermal,  means all sub-systems can involve to thermalzation in the end. ETH  not always true and violation to it means MBL for an interacting quantum many-body system. Well, my puzzle  as follows:

					For a olated quantum system  and a space-specified sub-system . t  assumed the initial state of   one of the eigenstates  of its Hamiltonian . Of course it  a pure state. Note the the initial state  of   not a pure state unless   the direct product state of  and the state of ,  means there   dentangled with the rest part . Since   chosen arbitrarily, mixed initial state of   the most general case and its state cannot be described by a single state but a density matrix .

					Now let the system  evolve along time. There are two ways to check  at arbitrary time .

					1)  can partially trace  by . While  will not change because   the eigenstate and it will not evolve under the time evolution operator thus  will not change forever. 

					2) The mixed state  evolves along time and it may thermalize to Gibbs density matrix  where   its stattical partition function. Th  indeed the statement of ETH.

					's wrong for the paradoxical results viewed from two different perspectives for the same thing

				
					Background

					The density matrix of a closed quantum system with Hilbert space  evolves according to the von Neumann equation
					\begin{align*}
					i\hbar\dot\rho=[H,\rho].
					\end{align*}
					Given a solution  to the above equation, the time-evolution of density matrices associated with subsystems can be obtained by taking the trace of . Specifically, if   a subsystem (with complement ,  can be thought of as the 'bulk' of the full system) then  .

					Under reasonable assumptions, the long-time dynamics of  typically involves equilibration to a thermal state.  ever, memory effects are apparent at intermediate times,  can be thought of as echos of the initial state of  that reflect the state of the bulk. 
					Using essentially a sort of scattering theory, it should be possible to use the dynamics of multiple instances of  to characterize the state of the bulk. 

					Question

					More fundamentally, 'm interested in the extent to  the full state  together with the time-evolution generator  can be inferred from a generic single instance of . The most basic version of the question  th: given a physically valid trajectory of a density matrix ,   the 'simplest' solution  to the von Neumann equation that induces the dynamics of  

					For example, if you looked at the dynamics of a single classical particle from an ensemble of hard spheres, you could theoretically enumerate the possible many-particle trajectories that would induce the dynamics of the single particle you can actually see. Of course, you can always add auxiliary particles that never produce an observable effect, so we are interested in 'simple' or irreducible auxiliary ensembles.

					[You can think of the problem as 'inverting' the hypothetical quantum master equation that  satfies. One challenge  that the dimension of the Hilbert space that contains the solution  to the inverse problem must be inferred from  as well.]

					Bonus : 

					1) s it possible to express candidate solutions  as functionals of  for  

					2)  much regularity of   needed to ensure that a candidate  valid up to time  will correctly predict the behavior of  for  

					The reason  ask th question  that it seems like a tentative brute-force framework for quantizing any system based only on the dynamics of local operators.

					Progress

					Ok, here's 'the physict's' approach. The idea here  to find a way of constructing moments of the full density matrix (and associated Hamiltonian) as a functional of . The equations to be solved are  and , for some suitable  and  and identification of , where we are given . Hence, we can introduce formal delta functions
					
					and weights 
					
					that penalize candidate ,  pairs that are too 'large' or 'contrived' in a certain sense. n the limit as , it seems reasonable that there  a way to frame the problem such that a unique optimal choice of  and  exts.

					We can then perform formal averages over solutions via
					\begin{align*}
					\langle\mathcal O[\rho]\rangle=\frac{1}{Z}\int\mathscr D \mathscr H \Bigg\{\mathscr D\rho(t)\mathscr DH\bigg[&amp;\exp[-\beta F[H]-\beta G[\mathscr H]]\times\dots\\&amp;\delta^\infty(\rho_S-\text{tr}_{S^C}\rho)\delta^\infty(i\hbar\dot\rho-[H,\rho])\mathcal O[\rho]\bigg]\Bigg\} 
					\end{align*}
					where   the associated partition function. mplicitly, we also have the constraints , , and that  must be nonnegative. 

					To make sense of  we need some standard way of identifying the subsystem  in . Th could be done, for example, by summing only over Hilbert spaces obtained by sequentially adding new degrees of freedom to  (and summing over the 'cardinalities' of the new degrees of freedom). Once th has been done, we can use a formal version of the Fourier representation of the delta function in order to make the integrand look more like a path integral. Th entails introducing a large number of auxiliary fields, depending on the size of the subsystem and the size of the 'ambient space' .    finite dimensional and has a finite dcrete Fourier transform, we expect  to be finite dimensional.

				
					 took a basic quantum chemtry course (McQuarrie's "Quantum Chemtry"), but it never dealt with mixed states -- only pure states (or if it did, we never got to it in class).

					So 'm trying to understand them on my own.  Consider a situation where Bob  in the lab and flips a coin.  f it  heads, he prepares the system into pure state .  f the coin  tails, he prepares the system into pure state .  Now he invites Dave into the room.  Bob knows  way the coin landed, but Dave doesn't.  All Dave knows  that the system  either in the pure state  or , each with 50% probability.

					...so could you say the system  in a pure state to Bob and a mixed state to Dave  Or am  way off base here

				
					Th  not a homework question, just a question  have developed to get a better conceptual understanding of the results of the Schrödinger equation.

					f  had a 3D spherical container or radius R, containing 2 particles of opposite charge, say a proton and an electron,  does the solution to the resulting Schrödinger equation look like  

					 does the solution compare to the solution of the Schrödinger equation for a simple hydrogen atom   happens as R approaches infinity

				
					  quantum dcord  stumbled upon th term on Quantum Computing: The power of dcord, but have never heard of it before. Can you give a bit more mathematical explanation of the term here 

				
					Given a completely positive and trace preserving map , it  clear by the Kraus representation theorem that there ext  such that  for all density operators  on . ('ll consider the special case  for simplicity.)

					f we use then the system+environment model to express th action as  for an ometry  from  to , where   an ancilla modelling the environment,   an explicit construction for a unitary  that has the same action on inputs of the form  That ,  can  construct an explicit dilation of the map to a unitary acting on a larger space  understand that th  possible by Steinspring's dilation theorem, but actually constructing an explicit form for the dialated unitary  have had much less success with.

				
					About 45 years ago or so  was a Physics department staff computer programmer when  was a physics major undergrad.   worked with a professor doing research on nuclear shell models -- he was attempting to develop a numerical method that would solve particular potentials using the BG equation as the mathematical foundation.  My job was to write the programs, run jobs, plot graphic output on a nice 27 inch Calcomp flat bed plotter, and other such things.  ever, ever  might have known,  have forgotten.

					But,  do have one form of th equation written below:
					
					Unfortunately,  do not have definitions of the variables other than  knew that   of course the potential and  believe the  are eigenvalues.

					The professor also notes in a hand-written note he prepared for me that the numerical method we were investigating  based on the Fox-Goodwin method.  He wrote in the margin, just barely legible that the Fox-Goodwin method he refers to  described in a paper cited as "Proc. of Cambridge Phil. Soc. 45 (1949) 373".

					So, with th skimpy information out of the past, can someone give me more information on th so-called BG equation   believe that B and G are the initials of last names () of the authors of some earlier paper.

					By the way,  have googled various aspects of these facts  know and  found some possible hits but they referred to papers that  could not find on-line and probably predated any form of publication on the nternet.

				
					n chapter 5 section 9 of Sakurai, 2nd edition, he uses some notation that  am unfamiliar with. Th may be suited for Math.se but  figured it could be peculiar physict notation. Anyways it  equation 5.9.14 and states:

					

					Could someone please explain 's going on with the Pr./ it means t seems like it might be some sort of principal value...like the Cauchy principal value.

					EDT

					The section  on energy shifts and decay widths from the chapter on perturbation theory. Th equation basically ares while doing an expansion on the energy corrections to second order. The second order energy shift  a sum over terms that look like:

					

					So he does that little trick above to separate the real and imaginary parts of the energy correction.

				
					n inflationary cosmology, primordial quantum fluctuations in the process of inflation are considered responsible for the asymmetry and lumpiness of the universe that was shaped. ever, according to the Copenhagen interpretation, any random quantum phenomenon only occurs when the system  observed; before observation, the quantum state  symmetric. So the question , who has observed the universe while it was inflating Obviously, there was no conscious creature that time.

					Actually, th problem  dcussed in the paper The Bohmian Approach to the Problems of Cosmological Quantum Fluctuations (Goldstein, Struyve and Tumulka; arXiv:1508.01017), and the proposed solution to the problem in said to be an observer-independent interpretation (the pilot-wave theory). 

				
					The purity of a quantum state  defined as 
					
					n the Schrödinger picture, it's easy to use th formula to see  the purity of the system changes as the system evolves. n the Heenberg picture, the density matrix   constant.  does one calculate the purity

				
					NOT a duplictae, see EDT below 

					t  common knowledge that the Schrödinger equation can be solved exactly only for the simplest of systems - such the so-called toy models (particle in a box, etc), and the Hydrogen atoms; and not for relatively complex systems, such as the Helium atom and other multielectron systems.

					

					 have been trying to get to the reason for th for a long time, and it seems that it has something to do with one or more of these -

					
					Correlation effects between the electrons as in the electrons trying to occupy positions opposite to each other with the nucleus between them.
					Some kind of quantum corellation due to entanglement.
					Appearance of inseparable 'cross-terms' in the expression for the Hamiltonian.
					As in 3 above, we can't figure out to model the fact that we don't know (from our theory) the total energy of the system (while we are making the model), and the kinetic and poten tial energies depend upon each other, so we can't actually find any of these.
					

					

					Some references for the above-

					
					https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamiltonian_(quantum_mechanics)#Many_particles
					

					
					  ever, complications can are in the many-body problem. Since the potential energy depends on the spatial arrangement of the particles, the kinetic energy will also depend on the spatial configuration to conserve energy. The motion due to any one particle will vary due to the motion of all the other particles in the system ... For N interacting particles, i.e. particles  interact mutually and constitute a many-body situation, the potential energy function V  not simply a sum of the separate potentials (and certainly not a product, as th  dimensionally incorrect). The potential energy function can only be written as above: a function of all the spatial positions of each particle.
					

					
					https://chem.libretexts.org/Textbook_Maps/Physical_and_Theoretical_Chemtry_Textbook_Maps/Book%3A_Quantum_States_of_Atoms_and_Molecules_(Zielinksi_et_al.)/09._The_Electronic_States_of_the_Multielectron_Atoms/9.1%3A_The_Schrödinger_Equation_For_Multi-Electron_Atoms
					

					
					  Unfortunately, the Coulomb repulsion terms make it impossible to find an exact solution to the Schrödinger equation for many-electron atoms and molecules even if there are only two electrons. The most basic approximations to the exact solutions involve writing a multi-electron wavefunction as a simple product of single-electron wavefunctions, and obtaining the energy of the atom in the state described by that wavefunction as the sum of the energies of the one-electron components.
					

					
					https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lt_of_quantum-mechanical_systems_with_analytical_solutions
					

					
					  Very often, only numerical solutions to the Schrödinger equation can be found for a given physical system and its associated potential energy. ever, there exts a subset of physical systems for  the form of the eigenfunctions and their associated energies can be found. 
					

					
					https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Many-body_problem
					

					
					  The many-body problem  a general name for a vast category of physical problems pertaining to the properties of microscopic systems made of a large number of interacting particles ... n such a quantum system, the repeated interactions between particles create quantum correlations, or entanglement. As a consequence, the wave function of the system  a complicated object holding a large amount of information,  usually makes exact or analytical calculations impractical or even impossible. 
					

					

					 have been trying to figure out these things for years, but inspite of all the available information,  still have a question to   cannot find a answer -

					  the fundamental reason behind our inability to solve the Schrödinger equation for multielectron atoms - s it actually imposibble to solve it (any proof) or are we just not good enough at maths Supposing that we kept trying g ti solve it, can someone clarify whether a solution could be found in principle

					EDT -

					To clarify my question, exting answers to older  already state that the problem has a very high computational complexity, so that finding a solution  extremly unlikely. My question  different.  already know from the linked resources (and others) that the equation  effectively unsolvable for us.

					  am asking for  a clarification whether we have any reason at all to believe in the extance of a solution in any form, and the reasons for the same 

					

					Notes-

					
					 know that there are other similar problems such as the 3 body problem in Classical mechancics and it would be great if the answer touches upon them too.
					The reasons  lted are not exhaustive at any rate, they are just  came off the top of my head as some of the variations of "The math  too tough." that i have seen over the years.
					

				
					Given the following pair of operators  and  that satfy the usual bosonic CCR:
					
					For  values of  are the following expressions well defined
					
					For integer ,  know that these expressions are well defined, but  am interested in knowing  kind of constraints are imposed on , if such an operator must be appropriately definable. f the above expressions can be defined in prece manner, then please also provide the appropriate construction of these operators.  

					Some meandering background:
					The actual problem 'm trying to solve has nothing to do with quantum mechanics! t  instead a reformulation of the dynamical equations of a polymer (hydrodynamically interacting with a solvent) using the rouse modes as "bosons" [JCP(45), 1966, M. Fixman, Polymer Dynamics:Boson Representation and Excluded Volume forces]. So there are no nice hamiltonians and unitary operators to work with. The dynamical equation  of the following form:
					
					Now the operator  has a representation in the boson operators as
					
					where  and  are real constants. The kets live in a standard bosonic Fock space, and a complete bas of number states  present constructed in a fashion equivalent to the case of the harmonic oscillator. On trying to solve the eigenvalue equation for , one can write down the eigenstates, indexed by the eigenvalue as
					
					such that . Th  where my original question comes into the forefront - Deciding on  these operators behave on being raed to arbitrary powers,  can fix the possible eigenvalues of . f it  possible to arrive at a conclusion on the eigenvalues of the given  operator in any other fashion, without resorting to th approach, then please go ahead and tell me.

				
					s there any relation between quantum spin and gravity
					Are there experiments that s or motivate that there  or n't a relation between the two

				
					 was recently at a lecture given by Dr. Harry Gray, a biophysical chemt, where he talked about  proteins (specifically those involved in photosynthes) are able to use various phenomena, like superexchange and tunneling, to move electrons through them, coupling redox reactions despite the extreme dtances (~20 &#8491;).  By using tunneling/superexchange, various redox proteins are able to move 300-2000 electrons/second over th dtance, while the reverse rate  effectively zero.

					 asked about  th barrier  one-way, but  don't have enough base knowledge to understand h reply; something about  the injected hole  chased through a series of several bonds (sigma and hydrogen)...  

					n any case, 'm curious for a simpler case and explanation of th 'diode' effect about  electrons can be shuttled one way with ease but not the other

				
					Regarding the free particle in QM, we are given that the general wave function :  The stationary states  are not physically realizable since they are not square integrable. So in that sense a particle cannot have a definite momentum energy or momentum. That  understand.  just want to confirm  happens during measurement of say momentum or energy. 

					So we measure some definite value of momentum or energy   an eigenvalue of the momentum or Hamiltonian (since the operators commute for a free particle). Then we would in principle collapse the wave function to some stationary state  but in th case we know that th  not possible (physically realizable). So do we measure a particular value of the momentum with some measurement uncertainty, with the uncertainty giving us the spread of values of the observable or do we measure a particular momentum and infer that there  a spread from above Or do we not measure a particular value ever but rather a range of values for a given measurement   

					Thanks.  

				
					Have there been any experiments performed (or proposed) to prove that the shapes of the s,p,d,f orbitals correspond to our spatial reality as opposed to just being a figment of the mathematics that give us something to vualize

				
					 an electron absorbs a photon, does the photon become electron "stuff" (energy); or,  it contained within the electron as a dcrete "something"

				
					 am trying to understand the model studied in 1905.09315 §2, to wit, a  dimensional theory with target space  with non-trivial magnetic flux:
					
					where  an angular variable, and  the magnetic flux.

					The main goal of the section  to study  happens when we make  position dependent,
					
					whose action
					
					 apparently ill-defined. To fix th, the authors introduce local patches  and a lift  such that, on , we have  for some integer . With th, the authors set
					
					where   some point in . t seems as if the authors are implicitly regarding  as a section of a circle bundle rather than as a function. (n the paper they always write the action in exponentiated form; th  probably more correct, because it  only defined mod , but  only write the argument here to simplify the notation).

					Furthermore, the authors claim that if   not constant (and has non-zero winding number), then the shift symmetry   broken, and th  regarded as an anomaly, from where one can deduce that the ground state cannot be trivial for all .

					:

					
					   ill-defined, and  does  fix th problem
					 does the breaking of  imply that the ground state must become degenerate at some point in parameter space
					

				
					My  are about de Broglie-Bohm "pilot wave" interpretation of quantum mechanics (a.k.a. Bohmian mechanics).

					
					Do quasiparticles have any meaning in Bohmian mechanics, or not Specifically,  it possible to trace the motion of a quasiparticle (e.g. a phonon, or a hole) by watching Bohmian trajectories
					Bohmian mechanics provides some explanation of difficulties related to quantum measurement process. But imagine that, in some kind of "theory of everything", all known elementary particles (leptons, quarks, gluons etc.) are actually quasiparticles (real particles are always confined). Would the explanation, provided by Bohmian mechanics, survive in th case
					

				
					 to explain introducing "grand canonical" Hamiltonian  when we study a quantum system with fixed chemical potential  understand such a substitution in a partition function but it's completely strange to see th in a pure quantum mechanics, e.g. writing Heenberg operators or Green's functions. 

					 encountered that when redaing about Green's functions for interacting Bose- and Fermi-gases.

				
					n  that ask about Planck's constant entering into stattical mechanics, a common and accepted answer  that Planck's constant  an arbitrary normalization that falls out when calculating experimentally measurable quantities.

					Specifically, it's said in the above  that  enters to de-dimensionalize the product  or to normalize  to count states, and the choice for such a constant with units of action  nearly arbitrary.

					To the contrary, consider  one calculates quantities in the grand canonical ensemble with a variable number of particles - mentioned in th question.

					n the grand canonical ensemble, the key potential  the grand potential,    The link to stattical mechanics comes from 
					

					where 

					For simplicity, consider a classical partition function  for N non-interacting particles. We have then that

					

					Th yields in turn that

					

					and in turn that   proportional to :

					

					

					For example, for non-interacting massless particles with  in a box with two internal degrees of freedom with  (i.e. a naive picture of light, without any  put into the energy or not), we have

					 Th leads to a pressure

					 from the thermodynamic relation above.

					As you can see,  enters into an experimentally measurable quantity! Thus one could experimentally measure Planck's constant via the pressure of such a gas. 'll leave it to you to check that  also enters into the pressure of a non-relativtic gas at a fixed .

					

					 will take from the above arguments that   not simply an arbitrary constant for de-dimensionalizing the product . Given th point of view that the de-dimensionalization of  has experimental ramifications, can we s that for every system in thermodynamic equilibrium that the de-dimensionalizing constant  must be a universal constant That , since the de-dimensionalization  not arbitrary, can we s the de-dimensionalizing constant must be the same for all equilibrium systems in classical stattical mechanics

				
					'm currently studying scattering theory in the book Quantum Mechanics, Vol. 2 by Cohen-Tannoudji. n the book the author deduces that to find the number of particles detected far from the target at a position described by  within the area  we just need to find the scattering cross section , so that , being  the intensity of the beam.

					The author then states:

					
					  n order to describe in quantum mechanical terms the scattering of a given incident particle by a potential , it  necessary to study the time evolution of the wave packet representing the state of the particle.
  
					  Actually, to simplify the calculations, we are going to base our reasoning directly on the stationary states and not on wave packets.
					

					n that case he considers a fixed energy  and looks for an eigenstate  of  with th energy. The evolution of th state  obviously . The author states that th  the same kinetic energy of the incident particle before it reaches the zone of influence of the target.

					The author then states regarding th procedure:

					
					  Therefore, we shall specify, using wave packet properties in an intuitive way, the conditions that must be imposed on the solutions of   if they are to be used in the description of a scattering process. We shall call the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian  satfy these conditions stationary scattering states.
					

					Finally to compute  and hence  the author uses the probability currents. He consider  the incident current, considering the wavefunction to be . 

					The whole point of my question  that the author then simply picks the wavefunction  associated to the stationary scattering state with energy , calls the corresponding probability current  and says

					
					  Similarly, the number  of particles  strike the opening of the detector per unit time  proportional to the flux of the vector  across the surface  of th opening:
  
					  
					

					From th the author obtains . My whole point here :

					Before reading th, the most natural approach to the problem in my opion would be: knowing the initial state, we evolve it in time according to the Hamiltonian  in the zone of influence of the potential. With knowledge of the time evolution of the initial state we compute the probability of finding the incident particle inside the area  located at  far from the target.

					That : we follow the evolution of the particle to see   happening with it.

					The author's approach,   as  found out, the standard approach, bases itself just on the so called stationary scattering states. That , instead of following  happens to the state of the particle, we end up finding the solution on certain eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian.

					  the reasoning behind th  knowledge of just some eigenstates of the Hamiltonian  enough to find the scattering cross section

				
					s there a phenomenon vible to the naked eye that requires quantum mechanics to be satfactorily explained  am looking for a sort of quantic Newtonian apple. 

				
					n introductory Quantum Mechanics treatments it  common to see the Schrödinger's equation being written, simply as:

					

					  first encountered it  got the wrong impression that  was a function defined on spacetime.

					Later, studying Quantum Mechanics in a little bit more advanced level than th one, 've learned the postulates.  we have, in truth  one abstract state space (the space of kets) , we have a position observable  and th observable gives re to a bas  of eigenstates.

					n that sense, the evolution equation  in truth jus:

					

					and the Shcrödinger's equation  appear on introductory treatments  just the projection of that equation onto the bas  as long as we write .

					n almost all the treatments 've seem up to now of the Dirac Equation, the equation  directly written as:

					

					t  then said that  must be matrices and th implies that  must be a column vector with four lines. ndeed, we have , where   spacetime.

					Now we ask ourselves:  it makes sense, in the Schrödinger's equation to write it in terms of a function  And the answer : because we have a position bas and time  a parameter of evolution.

					Now, as 've found out, time  not an observable! Hence, there  no bas of eigenvectors associated to time. n that case, it makes no sense in talking about one "spacetime bas" . Th, again, doesn't ext, because time and space are treated differently in QM: time  a parameter, position  an observable.

					n that case, the Dirac equation  written in  representation  mean, the Dirac equation   equation in the abstract state space  and   the representation we project it into to get the "spacetime" equation 

					 does the Dirac equation fit into the formalm of Quantum Mechanics of the abstract state space if there  no "spacetime bas"

				
					n Feynmans book, "Quantum mechanics and Path ntegrals" he writes in the conclusions (chapter 12-10)

					
					  With regards to quantum mechanics, path integrals suffer most grievously from a serious defect. They do not permit a dcussion of spin operators or other such operators in a simple and lucid way. ... t  a serious limitation that the half-integral spin of the electron does not find a simple and ready representation.
					

					Th has been written in 1965. Has there been any progress on th problem For example, it  possible nowadays to not only derive the Schrödinger equation, but also the Pauli equation from the path integral formulation of QM

				
					Holevo's theorem says that no more than n bits can be stored (and retrieved) in n qubits. ndeed, allowing error can't improve th either -- the probability of retrieving the correct information  no better than that  could be transmitted in the same number of bits and guessing at the rest.

					Superdense coding  one way around th bound: if the receiver shares n maximally entangled qubits with the sender, the sender can manipulate them such that when she gives the receiver her n qubits the receiver can obtain 2n bits of information. Perhaps th  not surpring, though, since he has to measure 2n qubits to get the data.

					s th the limit of quantum information capacity That , say sender and receiver share a large number N of entangled qubits and (after judicious manipulation and selection) the sender gives n of them to the receiver. Can more than 2n bits be transmitted in th way

					t would seem that the answer  "no", but 'd like a double-check. 'm very much a beginner, just working through Michael Nielsen's tutorials and Scott Aaronson's book. Th question  similar to another question here but my question  different and not answered there.

				
					've been thinking that if a moving charge produces magnetic field then an electron moving around the nucleus of an atom must produce a magnetic field. And if it produces magnetic field then every matter in th universe must behave as a magnet or have some magnetic properties.

				
					n the paper,  "Density-functional theory for time-dependent systems" Physical Review Letters 52 (12): 997 the authors mentioned that the action
					

					provides the solution of time-dependent Schrödinger equation at its stationary point.  Wikipedia  called (1) as the Dirac action without further reference. 

					f  do a variation, indeed the stationary point of action (1) gives
					

					ever, from path-integral point of view, the least action principle  only a limiting case when . n general, there  no least action principle in quantum mechanics.  

					My question ,  to reconcile these two aspects  does vary of action (1) mean

				
					Spin  the intrinsic angular momentum of a particle. The particle itself  elementary and  not spinning on its ax, and has th momentum even at rest. The absolute magnitude of th momentum cannot increase or decrease without changing the particle. The particle may have angular momentum in addition to its spin, increasing its total angular momentum linearly. 

					Rest mass  the intrinsic confined energy of a particle. The particle itself  elementary and does not physically contain internal energy (binding energy, elastic potential, vibrational, etc), and has th energy even at rest. The absolute magnitude of th energy cannot increase or decrease without changing the particle. The particle may have energy in addition to its rest mass, increasing its total energy linearly. 

					Would it therefore be correct to call spin "Rest angular momentum", in the same sense mass  "Rest energy". n  ways does th analogy break down

				
					n connection with the statement that QM can be formulated in terms of separable complex (rigged) Hilbert spaces, the fact that all infinite dimensional separable complex Hilbert spaces are omorphic to one another  sometimes emphasized.

					 understand  some authors like to add "(rigged)" in order hint  to make th slightly simplified statement more rigorous, but  th modification also compatible the "additional hint" that all "physically relevant" Hilbert spaces are omorphic For a "physically relevant" rigged Hilbert space, the ket space has to be nuclear:

					
					  A nuclear space  a topological vector space with a topology defined by a family of Hilbert seminorms, such that for any Hilbert seminorm  we can find a larger Hilbert seminorm  so that the natural map from  to   trace class.
					

					So  have some :

					
					 have the impression that rigged Hilbert spaces don't add anything for finite dimensional Hilbert spaces, especially all finite dimensional rigged Hilbert spaces of the same dimension should be omorphic. s th correct
					Are there simple examples of non-omorphic infinite dimensional separable rigged Hilbert spaces where the ket space  nuclear
					Are the most common examples of the - and -Schwartz-space (i.e.  and ) examples of non-omorphic rigged Hilbert spaces
					s the -Schwartz-space at least omorphic to a subspace of the -Schwartz-space
					

				
					
					   can  find the eigenstates of creation and annihilation operator in QM
					

					My attempt:

					Such eigenstate will obey: 

					We can expand  in terms of the quantum SHM eigenstates: .

					Knowing the action of the creation operation of quantum SHM eigenmodes (:

					

					from  the state   now msing, so it will never be equal to the RHS of the first expression, .

				
					s  possible to construct an operator  out of  and  such that:
					
					for any state 

				
					  a bound state defined in quantum mechanics for states  are not eigenstates of the Hamiltonian i.e.  do not have definite energies Can a superposition state like  where  and  are energy eigenstates be a bound state  to decide

				
					 was taught that for the Dirac-equation to "work", you need matrices of the following form:

					
					.
					Eigenvalues +1 or -1
					2 previous points together: equal number of negative and positive eigenvalues, thus even dimension.
					 and  meet the anti-commutator relation.
					

					My Advanced QM professor told me convincingly that there are only 3 linearly independent 2D matrices, the Pauli matrices,  can be used in 2D. That's one short, so you'll need at least 4D matrices.

					Now my QFT professor, who excells at confusing me (and not only me, mind you), stated that it  perfectly possible to use only 2D matrices, by extending the Pauli matrix set with another one.  think he's wrong, but he seems too old (and "we") to be wrong, and  didn't remember all conditions above at the time, so  didn't want to argue without arguments.

					s it possible to 2D-ify the Dirac equation (and not only in a 2D system like graphene, but in general)

					Thanks

				
					Background

					Let me start th question by a long introduction, because  assume that only few readers will be familiar with the theory of partial coherent light and concepts like a mutual coherence function or a mutual intensity. The coherency matrix and Stokes parameters descriptions of partially polarized light are related concepts  are more widely known.

					Correct treatment of partial coherent light  important for an appropriate modeling of optical pattern transfer in computer simulations of proximity and projection lithography as currently used by the semiconductor manufacturing industry.   came to th industry, my previous optics "training" was insufficient in th area.  found chapter X "nterference and diffraction with partially coherent light" in Principles of Optics by Max Born and Emil Wolf most helpful for filling my gaps in th area. Later,  also "browsed" through "Stattical Optics" by Joseph W. Goodman,  has a nice paragraph in the introduction explaining  insufficient familiarity with stattical optics  so common:

					
					  Surely the preferred way to solve a problem must be the determintic way, with stattics entering only as a sign of our own weakness or limitations. Partially as a consequence of th viewpoint, the subject of stattical optics  usually left for the more advanced students, particularly those with a mathematical flair.
					

					The interesting thing  that Hermitian matrices and eigenvalue decompositions like the Karhunen-Loève expansion are used quite routinely in th field, and they some feel quite similar to modeling of coherence and decoherence in quantum-mechanics.  know that there are important obvious (physical) difference between the two fields, but my actual question   they have in common.

					Question

					Some elementary experiments like the double slit experiment are often used to illustrate the particle wave duality of light. ever, the theory of partially coherent light  completely sufficient to describe and predict the outcome of these experiments. There are no particles at all in the theory of partially coherent light, only waves, stattics and uncertainty. The global phase  an unobservable parameter in both theories, but the amplitude of a wave function  only important for the theory of partial coherent light and  commonly normalized away in quantum-mechanics. Th leads to a crucial difference with respect to the possible transformations treated by the respective theories. But  th really a fundamental difference, or just a difference in the common practices of the respective theories  much of the strange phenomena of quantum-mechanics can be explained by the theory of partial coherent light alone, without any reference to particles or measurement processes

					

					More information on   would actually like to learn

					One reason for th question  to find out  much familiarity with partial coherence can be assumed when asking  here. Therefore it explains  th familiarity cannot be taken for granted, and  written in a style to allow quite general answers. ever, it also contains specific , indicated by question marks:

					
					  
					    the theory of partial coherent light related to quantum-mechanics
					  ... the amplitude of a wave function ... But  th really a fundamental difference, or just a difference in the common practices of the respective theories
					   much of the strange phenomena of quantum-mechanics can be explained by the theory of partial coherent light alone, without any reference to particles or measurement processes
					  
					

					Don't be dtracted by my remark about the double slit experiment. Using it to illustrate the particle wave duality of light seemed kind of cheating to me long before  had to cope with partial coherence.  could effortlessly predict the outcome of all these supposedly counter-intuitive experiments without even being familiar with the formalm of quantum-mechanics. Still, the outcome of these experiments  predicted correctly by quantum-mechanics, and independently by the theory of partial coherent light. So these two theories do share some common parts.

					An interesting aspect of the theory of partial coherent light  that things like the mutual intensity or the Stokes parameters can in principle be observed. A simple analogy to the density matrix in quantum-mechanics  the coherency matrix description of  partial polarization. t can be computed in terms of the Stokes parameters
					
					and hence can in principle be observed. But can the density matrix in quantum-mechanics in principle be observed Well, the measurement process of the Stokes parameters can be described by the following Hermitian matrices , ,  and
					. Only  commutes with all other Hermitian matrices,  some means that each individual part of the density matrix can be observed in olation, but the entire density matrix itself  not observable. But we don't measure all Stokes parameters simultaneous either, or at least that's not  we mean when we say that the Stokes parameters can be measured in principle. Also note the relation of the fact that  commutes with all other Hermitian matrices and the fact that the amplitude of a wave function  commonly normalized away in quantum-mechanics. But the related question  really a serious question for me, because the Mueller calculus for Stokes parameters allows (slightly unintuitive) transformations  seem to be ruled out for quantum-mechanics.

				
					 it  possible to relate the power  of a laser light with frequency , to the amplitude  of its description as a coherent state  
					For a massive particle in an harmonic potential one has
					
					where   the oscillation amplitude. But  about a masses particle

					s it possible to use the mean photon number during time ,  

				
					 have two related  on the representation of the momentum operator in the position bas.

					The action of the momentum operator on a wave function  to derive it:

					

					(1) s it ok to conclude from th that:

					

					And  does th expression mean

					(2) Using the equations:

					

					and

					

					one can deduce that

					

					s th equation ok Does it follow that

					

				
					s it possible to have a non-zero probability current in a stationary state n a stationary state, the probability density  doesn't depend on time. For th to be true, 'd expect no flow of probability so that  can maintain a constant shape. ever from my work below, it seems like probability can flow even in a stationary state. s th correct

					

					1-dimensional probability current  given by: 
					

					For a stationary state  where   a complex constant, the probability current :

					

					f   real-valued, then . ever assuming the more general case that   complex-valued ,  get that 

					

					Can  even be complex-valued 

				
					David Deutsch  very fond of pointing out Shor's integer factorization algorithm  a demonstration of the many worlds interpretation. As he often asked, where else did all the exponentially many combinations happen

					Are there any other alternative interpretations of quantum mechanics  can explain Shor's algorithm, and the Deutsch-Jozsa and Simon's algorithm

				
					Can anyone give an non-trivial example of compact operators in quantum mechanics Of course, any operator on a finite-dimensional Hilbert space  compact. 

				
					Most dcussions of quantum non-locality center on entangled pairs of particles  are described by a single wave function and thus, in some way, are to be regarded as one quantum object such that a dturbance to one particle in the pair will cause an instantaneous change in the other.

					 wonder if nonlocality can be extended to single particles. f we consider a photon, it might have an arbitrarily large wavelength. Radio waves in the tens-of-Hertz frequency range have wavelengths in the order of thousands of kms. Now if we assume that such a photon extends in space (in the direction of its propagation) such a huge dtance as its wavelength,  should we think of its behaviour when some event occurs to it, such as absorption or reflection Reasonably, the entire photon will change its state instantaneously even though the "front end" and "back end" of the photon may be very far apart. s not that also a form of nonlocality

					 reale that th line of reasoning hinges on the idea that a photon can have a (more or less) defined extension in space, something that  am very unsure of.

				
					Using electrical potential energy  , a particle further away from nucleus has lower magnitude of energy.

					Using Coulomb's law, a particle further away from nucleus experiences weaker attraction, hence less energy  needed to maintain orbit around that e-shell compared to a electron shell closer to nucleus, hence the one closer to nucleus supposedly should have higher energy.

					 know in reality  does not orbit around a atom, but its position exts as a probability density or radial probability function.

				
					 just happened across th over on Math Overflow. t references the following theorem from linear algebra:

					
					  A vector space has the same dimension as its dual if and only if it  finite dimensional.
					

					 would like to ask a physical question using the infinite square well (SW) in quantum mechanics as motivation. For the SW we obtain  as the eigenfunctions of the Hamiltonian. Here  enumerates the states. f  understand correctly th  an infinite dimensional vector space, because the 's form an infinitely large bas (ie there  no largest value of ). f the dual space  the set of functions  (  think it )  can the vector space and the dual space have different dimensions

				
					'm trying to work through Altland and Simons' example of interacting fermions in one dimension. t's in chapter 2, page 70 (you can find it here).

					They define fermionic operators
					
					where .   an operator that creates an electron going to the left with momentum , and   an operator that creates an electron going to the right with momentum . So basically, , . These operators are restricted to ext only for small .

					Then, they define density operators

					

					They go on to s that the commutation relations for the density operators are

					

					Now, here's the part  don't understand. They say they want to replace the right side of the equation with its ground state expectation value. They define the ground state of the theory by . Then they claim that 

					

					 should th be true  understand that in the noninteracting theory,   orthogonal to  unless . But in the interacting theory, the ground state could be in a superposition of states that means .

					They ultimately use th to prove

					
					and  don't see any other way to prove th.

					 am  msing

				
					
					  A wave-function can be written as  where  &amp;  are the energy &amp; momentum of the particle.
					  Now, differentiating  w.r.t.  and  respectively, we get
					  \
					  The above equations can be written in suggestive forms
					  \
					  Evidently the dynamical quantities momentum and energy are equivalent to the operators
					  \
					

					quoted from Arthur Beer's Concept of Modern Physics

					 can observable quantities be equal to operators
					You can't measure an "operator".
					Can anyone intuitively explain  momentum and energy are equal to operators 

				
					Question. n the context of QM,  hear the phrases 'complete set of states' and 'complete bas' (among other similar expressions) thrown around rather a lot.  exactly  meant by 'complete'

					Further remarks.  understand the term 'complete set', vaguely speaking, to mean a 'set from  all elements of our space can be constructed by linear combination'. ever, to me th seems completely indtinct from the term bas.  thought at first that perhaps the word bas wasn't applicable to the infinite dimensional vector spaces that we often meet in QM, but having come across the extence of Schauder bases  no longer believe th to be the case. s it then so that 'complete set of states'  a poorly-defined, some redundant expression, or does it have a prece meaning dtinct from 'constitutes a bas'

					Two definitions that  have seen before (in the context of function spaces) are as follows: the functions  are a 'complete set' or 'complete bas' if for all functions  there exts a set  such that

					

					where   the weight function used in defining the norm on the space. The second definition :
					

					So now  ask: are these definitions correct, and are they equivalent Further,  are these definitions useful  we talk about complete sets of states in QM, the relevance (in so far as  understand it)  that such sets can be used to construct all other states. f th  so,  not the term 'bas' more appropriate, since it directly expresses such a property of a set Do the definitions above coincide with the definition of a Schauder bas for an infinite dimensional function space Or are they different in some subtle way

					've asked several mathematicians th question; none have known the prece meaning in the sense 've described, but rather only in the sense of Cauchy sequence convergence in metric spaces. Hence my asking th on physics.SE. Thank you for reading.

				
					To diagonalize quadratic term in the antiferromagnet Heenberg model, we may introduce the Bogoliubov transformation:,   .
					Th transformation can diagonalize the quadratic term in the Hamiltonian:

					\

					with .
					But the transformation U:   not unitary, because  are real, .

					s the number of bosons not conserved, so the transformation may not be unitary Are there any restriction on the transformation of boson

				
					Th question  motivated by the sue of information retrieval from black holes, but it  essentially a question about quantum information. 

					t  widely believed (in certain circles) that the information about the htory of black hole formation  continuously leaked out as the black hole  evaporated, and  encoded by the Hawking radiation quanta. Th way one does not lose information when the black hole  completely evaporated, and furthermore one does not need to postulate some implausible ways in  macroscopic amount of information  stored in an increasingly microscopic object, only to be some released at the very last stage of the evaporation process.

					To make th more quantitative,  am wondering if similar  were asked in the quantum information community. Suppose you have an encrypted message of a certain length   revealed to you over time, and you are trying to decode it. Obviously the more time passes the more information you can have about the message, and when you reach a time  scale with the size of the message you are expected to gain access to the full information. 'm looking for some more quatitative knowledge about th question. For example:

					For a generic decoding,  it known  much time you need in order to gain access to a finite fraction of the information Are there some universal results about the asymptotics of such process (in the spirit of "critical exponents")

					Are there bounds on optimal encoding, whose purpose would be to delay a release of a finite fraction of the information to later and later times n particular, can there be encoding  releases a finite fraction of the information only at the very last stages of the decoding

					 realize th  probably an hopelessly pedestrian question, pointing me towards some review literature might be the way to go in such case. 

					Edit: Thanks everyone for your answers, they all were useful in different ways. The question was vague enough for it not to have a single correct answer, but 'll choose Peter's because he some managed to read my mind (though there was no way to tell from the way the question was phrased). Hope to ask more prece  on related topics in the future.

				
					t  often Stated that Bell's Theorem  equivalent to the statement: No theory of Local Hidden Variables can reproduce all of the predictions of quantum mechanics.  see nowhere in Bell's Theorem the assumption of hidden variables. As far as  can tell, there  one assumption: locality,   sn to conflict with quantum mechanics. f  am wrong on th, could someone demonstrate exactly  Bell failed to demonstrate that quantum mechanics  non-local by sing  the assumption of hidden variables  used in h theorem To me -- and by the way Bell -- the problem  locality. 

				
					  read about the photoelectric effect,  came across th:  

					"The electrons could not absorb more than one photon to escape from the surface, they could not therefore absorb one quanta and then another to make up the required amount – it was as if they could only embrace one quantum at a time. f the quantum absorbed was not of sufficient energy the electron could not break free. So 'escape energy' could only be transferred by a photon of energy equal or greater than that minimum threshold energy (i.e. the wavelength of the light had to be a sufficiently short). Each photon of blue light released an electron. But all red photons were too weak. The result  no matter  much red light was sn on the metal plate, there was no current."

					So   the physical explanation of "electrons could not absorb more than one photon"  do we know its exactly one For example,  do we know that changing the frequency doesn't change  much photons will get absorbed by one electron One could argue that all photons have the same energy at ever frequency but when you change the frequency, an electron could simply absorb more photons, thus gaining more energy.

				
					One of the most important results of Classical Mechanics  Liouville's theorem,  tells us that the flow in phase space  like an incompressible fluid. 

					ever, in the phase space formulation of Quantum Mechanics, one of the main results due to Moyal  that quantum flows are compressible.

					So 's the intuitive reason for th difference

					Formulated a bit differently:  exactly  the assumption used in the derivation of Liouville's theorem that  no longer valid in Quantum Mechanics

				
					 suggest the following thought experiment that describes a machine  makes everybody happy.

					Suppose a lottery  conducted. The winner  awarded a billion dollars plus the title of eternal Earth dictator.

					The winner  determined in the following way.

					
					There  a thorough olated black box inside  a pretender  placed.
					nside the box a quantum experiment  conducted with equal probability of the two outcomes: 0 or 1 (it may be based on an atom decay)
					The pretender measures the result with an apparatus. 
					The black box  connected by a quantum link (in form of an optical fiber) to an external quantum computer
					After the measurement by the pretender  done the result  automatically transmitted by the optical link to the quantum computer
					The transmitted qubit  used by quantum computer as an initial state of the quantum regter instead of usual Hadamard transform before performing a Shor factorization algorithm.
					After the algorithm  performed, the result  checked whether it  correct.
					f it  correct the pretender  declared the looser. f the factorization returned a wrong result, the pretender  declared the winner.
					

					 happens.

					Any average person placed in the black box will measure the result of the atom decay and similarly to a Schroedinger cat will enter the superposition of two states: the one  saw 0 and the one  saw 1.

					Similarly the measuring apparatus will enter the superposition. So the qubit sent via the optical fiber will be a superposition of two states:

					

					As th value  exactly the same  Hadamard gate returns after being applied to an empty qubit, th will allow the quantum computer to perform the factorization as usual and return the correct result, dpite that the initial step of applying the Hadamard gate has been replaced by loading the qubit obtained from the black box.

					Now suppose the observer himself  placed in the black box. After the atom decay he will perform measurement  will collapse the wave function. The observer will be in either state where he saw 0 or where he saw 1. So either bas state 0 or bas state 1  sent via the cable to the quantum computer.

					Since th  different from the usual value  should be loaded in the regter before performing the factorization, the factorization will return a wrong result. So the pretender will be declared the winner.

					

					t follows that any person, when he or she  observing the lottery from outside will see all other pretenders to loose.

					At the same time any participant that tries the lottery himself will find himself a winner.

					Th  a fascinating lottery  will make all the participation pretenders the winners in their own eyes. Each person who goes through th machine will see other people to congratulate them, to proclaim them the eternal emperor and so on.

					 would like to see whether there any mtake in the reasoning.

				
					 we talk about the elementary problems in quantum mechanics like particle in a box, we first calculate the energy eigen-function. Then we say that the most general state  the linear combination or superposition of these bas eigen-functions. But when we go to the atoms, say hydrogen atom, we end up in calculating energy eigen-functions and say the electrons  occupy these stationary states starting from least energy state (ground state).  have seen th in solid state physics too.  For instance in nearly free electron model, we calculate energy eigen-functions with eigenvalues 

					 where , 
					=length of the sample and assume that electrons are going to occupy these states. Here too there  no dcussion of linear combination of these states.

					So my question   don't we talk about the state functions here that may be the linear combination of two or more than two stationary states in atoms or are the conditions under  electrons occupy only the stationary states  

				
					 have a very simple question with regard to numerical methods in physics.

					 want to solve the eigenvalue problem for a particle moving in an arbitrary potential. Let's take 1D to be concrete. .e.  want to find  satfying

					\

					Now  do  do it exactly Naively  would implement the following algorithm:

					1) Pick some . 

					2)  want to find    normalizable. So  could pick a large , set  and  and numerically integrate from there using the Schrodinger equation. 

					3) f  encounter a solution   exponentially small far to the right of the origin, then  say the solution  normalizable (since it  decaying at ), and  accept the pair .

					4)  increment  and  repeat the process.

					n doing so,  should get the spectrum around my starting value of .

					Does th algorithm actually work t also seems to me like a very uncontrolled way of doing it;  have no idea  accurate the spectrum  going to be. For example, would changing  make a difference

					The thing ,  know from Sturm-Liouville theory that the spectrum   going to be dcrete (given  satfying some nice properties). So the spectrum  going to be a set of measure 0 amongst the entire real line that  lives in. Th means that 'm almost surely (i.e. with probability 1) never going to get a solution that  normalizable, and ever solution  try to numerically integrate from my starting point  always going to blow up having integrated far enough to the right.

					So,  algorithm do people use to numerically obtain the spectrum and the eigenvalues  do  also control accuracy of the spectrum generated

				
					 have recently read  the Gaussian wave packet spreads while propagating. 
					see:
					http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wave_packet#Gaussian_wavepackets_in_quantum_mechanics

					Though  understand the mathematics  don't understand the physical explanation behind it. Can you please explain

				
					 am not satfied with the explanations of   "trick" used in zeta function regularization, dcussed here and here, or the references therein. f someone could give a step-by-step explanation or a reference if the explananation  more complicated than 'm guessing, that would be greatly appreciated.

				
					f one starts with  nuclei at , then after time , the number of nuclei left un-dintegrated are given by  

					s there a similar stattical decay law for an assembly of atoms in a two-level system with energies  and  f at ,  atoms are made to populate the excited state , do we expect at a later time the population of the level  to exponentially deplete like (1)

					f not,  type of depletion law in time do we expect 

					'm not interested in  a single atom does in presence of interaction.  know that in presence of time-dependent interactions, a single atom in a simple two-level system makes back and forth transition between the levels. My question  about the overall stattical behavior of an assembly of atoms in a two-level system prepared in the excited state at .

				
					 don't understand  quantum mechanics (and therefore also quantum computers) can work  given that while we work with quantum states, particles that th quantum state const of cannot be observed,   the most fundamental requirement.

					f  am not mtaken, by "observed" we mean interaction with any other particle (photon, gluon, electron or ever else). So my very important :

					
					Aren't the particles th quantum state consts of interacting with each other  doesn't that cause the state to collapse
					Aren't all particles in the universe interacting with Higgs field and gravitons etc  doesn't that cause every quantum state to collapse
					

					 feel there  something very fundamental in quantum mechanics that  am not aware of, hence  would be very pleased to have these  answered.

				
					Consider probability densities for a particle in the lowest energy state of a simple harmonic oscillator. The quantum mechanical probability density peaks near the equilibrium point and extends beyond the sharp limits of motion predicted by classical physics. The classical probability density  inversely proportional to the classical velocity and  greatest at the endpoints of the motion, where the velocity vanhes.
					My question clearly 

					
					  s there a inconstency between Quantum and Classic in  probability density of harmonic oscillator in it's ground state s the correspondence principle valid here
					

					

				
					 am a beginner in th quantum-mechanics stuff.  understand the quantum eraser only from an experimental view. So  didn't understand the formalm that describes the quantum eraser. But  does the experiment tells us Does the photon know that there  somebody watching it And th   it behaves in another way Does the photon also see the future

				
					Bosons are either gapped or condensated, except physical principle protected cases (Goldstone boson, photon, etc.).  read th in a paper (version1 of http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3728v1, 1st page 1st column) and in other lecture slides (page 6 of http://dcor2013.files.wordpress.com/2013/12/lee.pdf). Th slide appears to talk about some mean field result of spin liquid state.

					Th statement  not really pertinent to the mainstream of that paper. But it sounds rather intriguing and necessary to be further clarified. So could anyone make it clearer Thanks!

				
					t  said that neutrons have small scattering angles in case of elastic coherent scattering.  am having some queries regarding the same.

					
					 do we call it coherent  mean, we say that for coherent scattering, there needs to be an absorption and re-radiation by atomic nuclei (like in case of photons scattered by nuclei). Does it mean that the neutron gets absorbed by the atomic nucleus and then again it  re-radiated
					 do we call it small angle scattering
					

					 have attached th slide from (http://meetings.chess.cornell.edu/ACABioSAS/TrackA/SAXSandSANS-Biospecifics_Trewhella_ACA_2015fin.pdf).   don't understand  that since nucleus  much bigger than the neutron, classically, the neutron can even bounce back after the collion and thus the scattering angle would be quite large. So  do we explain the small scattering angle

				
					Suppose a potential , and suppose a bound particle so the allowed energy levels are dcrete. Suppose a second potential  such that  for all  (suppose the potentials are relevant only for some interval). Does th necessarily imply that the eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian with  will be at least those of the Hamiltonian with  That , if  are the energy levels of the first Hamiltonian and  are the energy levels of the second Hamiltonian,   for all   can one s th

				
					 an observer causes the wave function of a particle to collapse,  can we know that the wave function was not collapsed already before the measurement

					Suppose we measure the z-component of the spin of an electron. After the measurement, it  entirely aligned along the measured direction, e.g. the +z-direction. Before the measurement we need to assume that a probability dtribution proportional to  of the two allowed directions  present.

					f we repeat the measurement with many identically prepared electrons, we should see such a dtribution finally. For example, we could measure 40% spin-down and 60% spin-up.

					ever, it seems we could also assume that all of these particles have a defined spin-direction before we measure them.

					  an intuitive (being aware that quantum phenomena as such are rarely intuitive) explanation for  we cannot simply assume that the spin was already aligned completely in that measured direction

					

					With regards to the suggestion that th two-year old question  a duplicate of the one asked yesterday,  would like to point out that my question n't limited to entanglement, but asks about a very fundamental principle in quantum mechanics, and as such  not a duplicate.

				
					Quantum Mechanics  very successful in determining the overall stattical dtribution of many measurements of the same process.

					On the other hand, it  completely clueless in determining the outcome of a single measurement. t can only describe it as having a "random" outcome within the predicted dtribution.

					Where does th randomness come from Has physics "given up" on the extence of microscopic physical laws by saying that single measurements are not bound to a physical law

					As a side note: repeating the same measurement over and over with the same apparatus makes the successive measurements non-independent, stattically speaking. There could be a hidden "stateful" mechanm influencing the results. Has any study of fundamental QM features been performed taking th into account  was the outcome

					

					Edit: since 2 out of 3  seem to me not to answer my original question, maybe a clarification on the question itself will improve the quality of the page :-)

					The question  about  single measurements have the values they have. Out of the, say, 1000 measure that make a successful QM experiment,  do the single measurements happen in that particular order
					 does the wave function collapse to a specific eigenvalue and not another t's undeniable that th collapse (or projection) happens. s th random   the source of th randomness

					n other words:   the mechanm of choice

					

					Edit 2: More in particular you can refer to chapter 29 of "The road to reality" by Penrose, and with special interest page 809 where the Everett interpretation  dcussed - including  it , if not wrong, quite incomplete.

				
					The oil bath experiments of Couder and Fort have been able to reproduce various "pilot wave like" quantum behavior on a macroscopic scale. Particularly striking  the fact that the double-slit interference behavior could be reproduced. mmediately one wonders about the possibility of realizing entanglement phenomena using these oil bath experiments. The article linked to above contains a quote that it  impossible to realize entanglement phenomena in th sort of experiment because a higher dimensional system would be needed to exhibit these phenomena. 

					Question: s it theoretically impossible to realize entanglement-like phenomena (e.g. non-local behavior or violation of some sort of Bell inequality) using a Couder-Fort experiment  are the details of th impossibility claim

					Note that a recent paper further reinforces the claim that the oil bath experiments are closely analogous to quantum mechanics. Violation of Bell inequalities does not appear in th paper, though. 

					EDT: To clear up any munderstanding,  am trying hard here not to make the ridiculous claim that a classical system should violate the Bell inequalities.  am aware that looking at the phase space of a classical system as an underlying space we can only get classical correlations and these must obey the Bell inequalities.  suppose the sharper question  should ask  the following:

					Refined Question: Where does the mathematical analogy between the DeBroglie-Bohm pilot wave theory and the mathematical model of the oil bath experiment break down

					f the analogy  perfect, then we should be able to interpret the oil bath experiment mathematically as a non-local hidden variable theory. Such a theory should violate some sort of analogue of Bell's theorem, shouldn't it The original Bell inequality was perfectly equivalent to an inequality in classical probability, and so  don't see  th  exclusively tied to the dimension of the phase space.

				
					So given the angular momentum operator:

					

					 know  to write these in terms of polar coordinates (obviously). But say  want to work in complex coordinates, such that:

					\

					and

					\

					 know that th should be possible (right) but no matter   dot the complex terms,  keep getting  and  terms that don't cancel and shouldn't be there. My textbook (Pringe) uses these substitutions in some problems but doesn't explain very well HOW one goes about performing them.

					s it actually possible to work in these coordinates Or  th just a notation that no one uses

				
					 mass of the particle  the source of gravitational field f we define mass as a pole of the propagator, and calculate loop corrections to the pole we get infinities. Now the way we get rid of these infinities defines   our renormalized propagator and   its pole.   the mass of the particle  dependent on  renormalization scheme we choose. Now, gravity field knows about everything that happens to the particle (as any energy gravitates), all contributions of ever virtual particles contribute to the mass of particle (up to very short dtances). 

				
					We know that an operator A in quantum mechanics has time evolution given by Heenberg equation:

					

					Can we derive from th that 
					

					L.M.:  added  in front of .

				
					'm making examples of wave functions to incorporate in a QM exam.

					 came up with the following wave function,  gives me some troubles:
					
					Th  basically a quick modification of problem 1.17 of Griffiths 2nd edition,   thought would make things easier for the first problem of the exam.

					After the usual normalization of ,  give ,  want to then have the students compute the expectation values of , ,  and , and then verify the uncertainty principle.
					Th  where it gets tricky ...

					 get  and  easily.

					For the momentum though,  get  ... an imaginary number!
					  that possible  does that mean Am  doing something wrong in the calculation
					 am wondering if it  because of the form of the function in  and . 

				
					've been struggling with th all week to no avail.

					'm asked to calculate the expectation value of kinetic energy for an electron in the ground state of a Coulomb potential.  know that it ought to be , but  am having a difficult time arriving there.

					n general, the expectation value of, say, , 

					

					over all space. n the case of kinetic energy,  would be equal to

					

					and, in the case of a ground-state electron, we would have

					

					with  being the Bohr radius.

					ever, for the life of me,  cannot get th integral to work. For a while,  was continually coming up with either 0 or a non-converging integral, until  stumbled on some piece of information (that  can't find convincing proof of, either in my textbook or on the internet) that the square angular momentum (that , )  equal to  - in my case, 0, since  in the ground state . Th simplified things and gave me an integral  could get to converge. ever, it seems to converge to
					
					 not only has the wrong units of (energy time per length)^2 but also has the wrong value.

					Please help. Th homework problem has taken an embarrassingly long time and a lot of scratch paper to do already.

				
					  the underlying reason that the same pairs of conjugate variables (e.g. energy &amp; time, momentum &amp; position) are related in Noether's theorem (e.g. time symmetry implies energy conservation) and likewe in QM (e.g. )

				
					Not a physict or Chemt, just interested in QM and it's applications. 

					've been reading lately about Quantum Chemtry and it occurred to me that since we can model electron orbitals in QM and solve for the shape of the orbitals that result (the S, P, D, F etc orbitals),  explains  neutral atoms can form bonds together (valence electron wave function spreading out into a lower energy state between atoms, the difference going into kinetic energy).

					So, it occurs to me that we should be able to represent chemical reactions as some kind of interaction between groups of atoms. So,  th realtically (computationally) possible And if so,  complex of reactions can we represent in QM Are we struggling to model H2 or the 4H + O2 => 2H2O reaction, or are computers at the point where we can model the methylation of Benzene or ATP synthes 

					Bonus points if anyone can link to vualation videos of reactions that demonstrate their Quantum nature!

					thanks!

				
					'm sorry for the long question.

					n Brian Greene's book 'The Hidden Reality' he gives a nice illustration of the uncertainty principle. magine a butterfly flying around in a room. We would like to measure the speed and position of the butterfly by capturing a photograph of it. We can take a photo with a very fast shutter speed and the resulting sharp photo would give a good measure of the position. But th gives a poor measure of the speed. On the other hand, if we take a photo with a slow shutter speed, the resulting photo with a butterfly trail will give an estimate of the speed, but the position information in th photo will be very coarse. He makes it a point that we cannot measure both the speed and the position accurately at the same time and th illustrates the quantum uncertainty principle. 

					 understand  he tries to convey. Also  have seen th myself in action when  program the Fourier transform where  have to comprome on the number of frequency bins to get more accurate frequency values.

					 was trying to explain th to a friend and  was trying to make a point that th  not a technological limitation and there  no way to improve the accuracy in the butterfly example using a better technology.

					Then my friend asked  if we use two different cameras, one with slow shutter speed and one with fast shutter speed  was bit taken aback. On the face of it, it sounds a smart idea. But  knew that th wouldn't work. ever,  was not sure about the minimum argument against it.

					 could think about two arguments.

					
					Here the crux  that we need to measure both the parameters simultaneously. Assume that my friend configures both the cameras to fire 'simultaneously' in a simulated manner. f the short exposure time  10 millecond and the long exposure time  1 second, he could program both of h cameras so that the 0.5ms tick of the fast camera coincides with the 0.5s tick of the slow camera. Th would mean that both camera would start at different times, but their timing midpoints will coincide and th will make sure that the cameras capture the information some 'at the same instant'. Even though one could argue that th  not quite an 'instant',  believe th  according to the spirit of the experiment. 
					

					ever, the catch here  that the slow camera still captures a span of 1 second and the resulting estimated velocity couldn't be reliably related to the position captured by the 1ms camera.

					
					Th  the macro world equivalent of a quantum measurement. n the quantum world, we cannot make two measurements on the same particle  was in the super position state to get two different parameters. The first measurement dturbs the super position and snaps the particle to a definite eigen state and the second measurement would just measure the value of th eigen state, not of the original super position state. 
					

					So, the butterfly experiment  precely not a quantum one.

					My question : Should  necessarily invoke the 2nd argument s the 1st one enough to close the deal

					Edit : After learning little bit more about the non-commutative nature of the quantum measurement, it seems like my second argument  not quite accurate as it has nothing to do with the timing, but all about not having a common eigen vector between the two complement quantum operators that contribute to the uncertainty(or the commutator operator not being 0). ever, the main question still holds.

				
					  the basic postulate on  QM rests. s it that the position of a particle can only be described only in the probabiltic sense given by the state function   We can even go ahead and abandon the particle formalm as well. So   the QM all about  A probabiltic description of the physical world  and nothing more 

				
					 am having trouble to understand the reasoning in the following paper,

					
					  On the reality of the quantum state. MF Pusey, J Barret and T Rudolph. Nature Phys. 8, 475–478 (2012); arXiv:1111.3328.
					

					From a few general assumptions, it claims to have proved the quantum wave functions must represent the physical states, rather than the knowledge about the physical systems.  didn't get the reasoning from page 2 to page 3, for the simplest case. The argument goes as following.

					With two copies of the same device independently, each of  can prepare its quantum states in either  or :

					

					for  the dtributions of physical states are  and . Suppose that  and  represent the knowledge states,  means  and  can overlap for . "Th means that the physical state of the two systems  compatible with any of the four possible quantum states , ,  and "

					Then two systems are brought together and measured by projecting onto four orthogonal states , ,  and , such that

					\

					From here, the authors stated that, for the overlap region  "it runs the rk of giving an outcome that quantum theory predicts should occur with probability 0". t  th last step reasoning that got me lost.  could one reach the conclusion of all four possible states, namely , ,  and , having probability of 0, based on the above four orthogonal relations and  Please help me understand th step of the proof.

				
					f you have a wave function  of a system consting of an electron and the vibrational modes of the crystal, THEN we represent the wavefunction  to be in the Hilbert Space formed by the tensor product of the Hilbert spaces corresponding to the electron with the Hilbert Space corresponding to the vibrational modes if and only if there n't an instantaneous interaction between the electrons and the vibrational modes; First of all, th  true right 

					The Born-Oppenheimer Approximation technique tells us that we can write the wavefunction  as a product wavefunction- as a product of the electronic () and vibrational modes' () wavefunctions. We write =    

					Now my main question:

					s the Born-Oppenheimer Approximation technique equivalent to saying that the Hilbert Space representation of the space that    situated in  the tensor product space of the electronic and vibrational mode wavefunctions

				
					  the momentum operator derived in Dirac formalm  am reading Quantum Mechanics by Sakurai and he gives the following derivation. But  don't understand  he goes from the third equation to the last equation in (1.7.15).   don't understand  where the partial derivative with respect to  comes from. Here  the derivation from the book.

					
					  Momentum Operator in the Position Bas
  
					  We now examine  the momentum operator may look in the -bas - that , in the representation where the position eigenkets are used as base kets. Our starting point  the definition of momentum as the generator of infinitesimal translations:
  
					  
  
					  Comparon of both sides yields
  
					  
  
					  or
  
					  
					

				
					A particle in a box has an energy that decreases with the size of the box. n the general case, it  often said that a variational solution for a "narrow and deep" potential  higher in energy than a variational solution for a "wider and shallower" potential, by appealing to the particle in a box as a special case. The former wavefunction  said to be "more confined" in the former than the latter, and the act of being given more space to spread out  said to lower the energy variationally.

					Question: are there rigorous mathematical statements of th argument

				
					Matrix product states (MPS) are a way of representing a (many-body) wavefunction. The method has been described, for example, in

					
					  The density-matrix renormalization group in the age of matrix product states. U. Schollwoeck. Ann. Phys 326, 96 (2011), arXiv:1008.3477.
					

					ever, would it be possible to see a concrete example for a small system  will the MPS look like for the following two cases

					
					A two spin system: 
					For a three-spin system: 
					

				
					 was reading some  here. 

					 couldn't understand  it means by postselection.

					  postselection   its use/significance Where did it came from  

				
					Whilst reading th paper on a quantum processor that performs a type of matrix computation,  came across the concept of 'three-photon interference'. A quick Google search ss that th process  frequently referred to in quantum optical experiments but unfortunately, no wikipedia article exts for it, can anyone yield some insight on th

					My own guess  that it  exactly  it says: the interference pattern that results when 3 photons are combined.   th dtinction so important,  3 photons and not 4, for example

				
					Potential philosophical sues notwithstanding, it  commonly said that the definition of an elementary particle  an irreducible, unitary representation of the Poincaré group (times a gauge group like , of course, but for simplicity 'll just leave that out for the moment).

					A key feature of th lies in the fact that th  the universal cover of the group of ometries of Minkowski spacetime, and  in particular a double cover of said group -- th   allows us to describe the particle's spin in terms of irreps. All th being said...

					
					  
					    My Question: magine we find ourselves living in a universe where we have a good understanding of  particles/fields/ever can be described in terms of representations of the symmetry group of the underlying spacetime we inhabit, but we have yet to learn about something like spin. Suppose we have some preferred choice of spacetime, with an associated ometry group that  not simply connected, and as far as we can tell thus far at that th point in htory the irreps of th group seems to be fine and dandy for describing the universe around us. s there some sort of physical reason/insight that might compel us to say, "Hey! Maybe we should look into irreps of th universal cover thingy... perhaps that will reveal something new about nature!"
    
					    n other words,  irreps of the universal cover Do we just use them because they happen to describe something we know about, or  there reason to suspect they should hold crucial information about the universe
					  
					

					Granted, th question may be silly and quite likely doesn't really have an answer... but 'm curious nonetheless to have a nice, convincing way of working with irreps of the universal cover other than "it works."

					EDT:  suppose  should say at the get-go that th question  definitely verging on being a duplicate of th one.  will just preemptively say that  think that hinges more on one already having the ideas of quantum mechanics in play (in particular the need for projective representations to deal with the fact that states are only unique up to phase) --  am asking a bit more generally, even if one knows nothing about quantum mechanics,  they might be lead to consider the universal cover rather than the group itself.

				
					'm trying to understand the general way to treat a change of reference frame in quantum mechanics.

					As  understand it, if  introduce the reference frame transform by a unitary transformation on the state vectors 
					 
					and  also make the transformation on the observables, 
					 
					the value of every quantity will be equivalently described in both reference frame 
					 
					So the Hamiltonian in the new reference frame should be given by 
					

					My problem  that in the old reference frame, Schrödinger equation says that the evolution  given by
					

					Now expressed in the  new reference frame, we have
					

					  not the form that  expected, that  

					So   the meaning of th result s the Schrödinger equation modified when making a transformation that depends on time or  the new Hamiltonian really 
					 
					s there a classical analogue for th result

				
					n general, in quantum mechanics we can prove probability current or the Schrodinger equation and other quantities are gauge invariant. ever, the Hamiltonian n't gauge invariant. Under a gauge transformation, the Hamiltonian operator changes(or have i understood wrong) Does th mean that the Hamiltonian doesn't describes a true physical quantity like in classical mechanicsClosing, if the above are correct, do they have any affect on the principle of least action

					Thank you.

					Note: The Hamiltonian : After a gauge transformation: . Thus, we have 

				
					 was reading th interpretation from th site, where these lines are noteworthy enough to talk for the fact that th interpretation doesn't actually talk about many-worlds:

					
					  These are the "many worlds" in question, although it should be clear that the label  some mleading. People sometimes rae the objection to the many-worlds interpretation that it's simply too extravagant to be taken seriously--all those different "parallel realities," infinite in number, just so that we don't have to believe in wave function collapse. That's silly. Before we made an observation, the universe was described by a single wave function,  assigned a particular amplitude to every possible observational outcome; after the observation, the universe  described by a single wave function,  assigns a particular amplitude to every possible observational outcome. Before and after, the wave function of the universe  just a particular point in the space of states describing the universe, and that space of states didn't get any bigger or smaller. No new "worlds" have really been created; the wave function still contains the same amount of information (after all, in th interpretation its evolution  reversible). t has simply evolved in such a way that there are now a greater number of dtinct subsets of the wave function describing individual conscious beings such as ourselves. The many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics may or may not be right; but to object to it on the grounds that "Gee, that's a lot of worlds,"  wrong-headed.
					

					'm not really understanding the reason "t has simply evolved in such a way that there are now a greater number of dtinct subsets of the wave function describing individual conscious beings such as ourselves."   it saying Can anyone explain me 

				
					 am not bothered that much by the fact that two observers describe the same phenomenon differently. Something similar , in principle ,  happens with simultaneity in special relativity,  and special relativity  a necessity based on experimental data that led to Maxwell's equations and the constancy of the speed of light in vacuum.

					 think that the (mathematical ) extence of the singularity inside a black hole   due to the inadequacy of the equations of GR (otherwe successful when quantum effects are negligible) related to  happens close to the center of a black hole, quantum gravity will eventually take care of that problem (hopefully ).

					The fact that Alice merrily passes the EH and gets torn apart by gravitational tidal forces (and eventually by the "singularity"), while  Bob "thinks" (based on the information he receives far from the black hole ) that Alice's bits (or qubits ) of information content are spread over the EH of the black hole (after an eternity has passed for him ),   don't see that as a big problem either ,  they just describe the universe from different perspectives.  ref. 1

					The black hole information paradox  a more difficult problem, though.  do you reconcile unitarity in QM (information conservation,  and reversibility of physical laws ) with the fact that no information leaks from beyond  the EH of a black hole, th  the main problem, as far as  can see, right .  

					Hawking radiation (related to entangled virtual particles at the EH) , the firewall problem , these are several attempts to solve the problem. ref. 2

					Every accelerating system generates gravitational waves, so in principle (emphas on "in principle ") even a proton crossing the EH of a black hole generates gravitational waves (as faint and undetectable  as they may be ), that can encode information about the matter falling into a black hole. So even th more difficult problem might allow solutions , in principle. Am  msing something here

					Question: Could the perstent effects of  gravitational waves solve the black hole information paradoxref. 3

				
					[Edit 2]
					 would prefer to just forget that  had ever asked th question (because  was so wrong it's embarrassing), but for the sake of people who possibly make the same mtake  did, 'll try to fix the question so it accurately represents   was trying to ask. n the end, it wasn't a constraint in the original theory that prevented the use of my strategy, it was that my "100% chance to win" was just a mathematical goof on my part, and the actual win chance for my strategy was 75%, just like it was supposed to be.

					First off, please forgive my ignorance when it comes to physics and Quantum Mechanics, 'm just a programmer that likes to pretend he understands science.

					There  an experiment that  used to prove that there are no "hidden variables" at work in quantum weirdness, but that particles in a superposition of states really do collapse only at the moment of measurement.

					The experiment uses a game known as the "CHSH game" (summarized at http://www.americanscientt.org/sues/num2/2014/4/quantum-randomness/1)   basically

					With cooperating players "Alice" and "Bob":

					
					After agreeing on a strategy they are separated and cannot communicate with each other in any way
					They are each given a sealed envelope that randomly contains either a red card or a blue card
					After being separated, they each open the envelope and must then rae either one or two fingers
					They win if both cards are red and they rae a different number of fingers, or either card  blue and they rae the same number of fingers.
					

					n the game, the best classical strategy for winning  for the players to ignore their cards and both rae one finger,  gives a 75% chance of winning.  ever, if they each have one of a pair of entangled particles and measure them slightly differently depending on  card they chose, they can increase their chance of winning to ~85.4%,   only possible because the method the first person used to measure their particle changed the results that the other person would get when they measured their particle.  The difference in the two chances of winning  known as Bell's nequality, and  used as proof that there's actual quantum weirdness going on.

					But it seems to me that the best classical strategy for the game (as summarized above) n't to always rae one finger, but for Bob to always rae 2 fingers, and for Alice to rae 1 finger when her card  red, and 2 fingers when her card  blue.  Th results in a 100% chance to win.

					Th  such a simple strategy that there must be some condition in Bell's theory that prevents it from being used.  Or perhaps the summary of the CHSH game in the article linked above skipped over some well-known context to the game that prevented it's use.

					So  are the conditions in Bell's theory that prevent th 100% win strategy from being used in the CHSH game

				
					At the moment  am studying operator algebras from a mathematical point of view. Up to now  have read and heard of many remarks and side notes that von Neumann algebras ( algebras) are important in quantum physics. ever  didn't see where they actually occur and  they are important. So my question , where they occur and 's exactly the point  they are important.

				
					 we introduce magnetic monopoles, we have duality, i.e. invariance under the exchange of electric and magnetic fields. 

					Magnetic (Dirac) monopoles are usually dcussed using topological arguments. The electromagnetic field  infinite at one point and thus we restrict our description to 

					

					The effect of a magnetic monopole  that it changes the topology such that we do no longer have the trivial bundle , but instead the principal bundle . Expressed differently, a magnetic monopole  described by the Hopf map . 

					 don't we need th construction for "electric monopoles", i.e. an electric point charge like an electron The electromagnetic field  also singular at the location of the electric monopole and thus  would suspect that the same line of arguments holds. n addition, doesn't duality tell us that there  "no" difference between an electric and a magnetic monopole

					've never seen a dcussion in topological terms of an electric point charge like an electron and thus  was wondering,  these are always only introduced for magnetic monopoles. 

				
					t's common to see people oversimplify by saying that physics currently lacks the tools to describe any situation involving both quantum mechanics and gravity. Clearly th  not the case. For example, the Pound-Rebka experiment involves inescapably quantum-mechanical phenomena such as the Mossbauer effect, but  really just a test of the equivalence principle. Less trivially, Colella et al. did an experiment demonstrating interference between two beams of neutrons that had traveled through different gravitational potentials. t seems to me that there are probably a bunch of different levels of difficulty we could consider:

					
					Experiments, such as the ones above, involving quantum mechanics, that can be described in flat spacetime using the equivalence principle. Curvature of spacetime  negligible.
					Experiments in  curvature  nonnegligible, but the analys  still trivial. For example,  could imagine, at least in principle, doing gravitational lensing with neutrons and observing quantum interference effects between different parts of the beam. (n reality, 'd guess th example wouldn't work due to decoherence.)
					Semiclassical gravity, e.g., Hawking radiation.
					Planck-scale physics.
					

					Can anyone comment on whether th 4-level classification seems right, or give a more rigorous set of criteria for dtinguhing the levels

				
					 was reading a physics article (related to the recent dcovery of a particle that could be the Higgs boson) and the article was dcussing electron spin and  spin can only be either up or down. 've always found th confusing –  know the directions 'up' and 'down' can be seen as arbitrary as they are relativtic in space. So, unless spin orients itself depending on the nearest gravity source, spin in th context must mean something different than in ordinary Englh. 

					'm also confused by the claim in the article that you can have right or left spin as a result of a spin measurement:

					
					  Suppose you do measure an electron as spin up, and then try to measure the left-right spin. Common sense would tell you that that number would be zero, since you know that the electron  spin up, not left or right, but  warned you about common sense before. t turns out that a) half the time you'll measure the electron to be left and the other half you'll get right, and b) whether it's left or right  completely random.
					

					 probably would understand   meant by up/down spin if  knew  the spin of a particle  actually measured ( think i could handle a detailed and prece explanation, but a crude explanation will suffice if it gives insight as to 1.  spin  up or down and 2.  it can come off as left and right when measured).

					s up down just a name given by physicts to two different types of spins Or does it have something to do with the actual directions 

					Related

					  spin as related to particles

				
					 you measure the position of an electron that  in a pure energy state,  happens the energy becomes non-determintic. That  future measurements of energy can only be predicted with respect to a probability dtribution. 

					Th seemingly violates the conservation of energy since future measurements of energy may give different results. 

					 assume here that the measurement process some adds some non-determinm or transfers energy to the measuring apparatus. But th  just a vague idea.  do you clearly explain th

				
					 read th article about time teleportation. 
					Can someone explain the concept better

				
					The total wavefunction of an electron  can always be written as  where   the space part and   the spin part of the total wavefunction . n my notation, . 

					Question 1 s the above statement true  am asking about any wavefunction here. Not only about energy eigenfunctions. 

					Now imagine a system of two electrons. Even without any knowledge about the Hamiltonian of the system, the overall wavefunction   antymmetric.  think ( have th impression) under th general conditions, it  not possible to decompose  into a product of a space part and spin part. ever, if the Hamiltonian  spin-independent, only then can we do such a decomposition into space part and spin part. 

					Question 2  Can someone properly argue that  th  so Please mention about any wavefunction of the system and about energy eigenfunctions. 

				
					John Cramer’s transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics (TQM)  billed as resolving the fuzzy agnosticm of the Copenhagen interpretation while avoiding the alleged ontological excesses of the Many Worlds nterpretation. Yet it has a low profile.

					s th because no-one care anymore about ontology in physics, or  there something about TQM  undermines belief in it

				
					Let's say that "decoherence"  that transition from a pure quantum state to a mixed state due to interactions with the environment. (A reasonable definition)

					  that compatible with the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics -- specifically with the role of the observer

					By the above definition, observation  an example of decoherence; the observer in the Copemhagen interpertation  part of the environment and causes the wavefunction to collapse. ever, decoherence can also happen by (often-unwanted) coupling of the quantum system to a heat bath. Does that mean that the heat bath  an "observer" f not,  causes the apparent** wave function collapse when there  no human observer

					Having worked with crummy superconducting qubits, 'm aware that they can decohere very quickly and apparently without human observation. E.g. suppose  initialize a qubit in a pure state. f  measure it after 10 ns, the qubit still appears to be in a pure state. f  measure the qubit after 1ms, it appears to have decohered into a mixed state. ( could determine that by trying to perform some quantum operation on the qubit.) Since  did not measure or interfere with the qubit in the intervening time, it does not seem that  could have caused the decoherence ("collapse").

					** 'm using the word "apparent" to mean "Appearing to the eye or mind (dtinguhed from, but not necessarily opposed to, true or real); seeming."

				
					've been reading ' the Hippies saved Physics',  describes a design for a superluminal communication device, of  the crucial part was a laser  duplicated an incoming photon many times.  The reason th won't work    now known as the no-cloning theorem - a quantum state can't be duplicated in th way.  t may appear that a laser can do th, but it can't.

					The thing  that  have vague memories of reading that when the laser was first talked about, it was claimed that quantum theory forbade such a device.   'd like to know  whether there were such claims, and if so were they based on the idea that a laser would duplicate a quantum state.

				
					n relativtic quantum mechanics, the solution of the free Dirac equation  assumed to be   do  know that th  the most general separable solution

					 was trying to derive th explicitly by the method of separation of variables as  Substituting, th into the free Dirac equation  trivially obtained  but  cannot solve the space-part of the equation (in a representation,  used the Dirac Pauli representation). The equation 'm stuck with :  where   the separation constant (  dimensionally the energy).  to solve th part to s that . Any suggestion in th regard will be helpful.

					  have written the equation in natural units i.e., .

				
					s the Many Worlds nterpretation determintic Considering that you can determine all of the possible outcomes of a wavefunction (pretty much impossible but still), the only random thing that remains  in  version of the universe you will proceed. 

				
					 am trying to work out the steps of the proof of the expression:  from Eq. (5.48) in the book Principles of the Theory of Solids by Ziman. n the book it  mentioned that th can be sn by expanding out:  where  with  being periodic.   did  a simple expansion:  Then  took the inner product with the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian  to get  Now, 's obstructing my calculation  the fact that  cannot justify the last two terms in the above expression being equal.  really need them to be equal to s the top identity (also known as the Bethe sum rule). The main obstacle  the fact that   non-Hermitian.

					 have found th identity in many books and journal articles. But  cannot find a satfactory proof anywhere. One such example  th article:

					
					  Sanwu Wang. Generalization of the Thomas-Reiche-Kuhn and the Bethe sum rules. Phys. Rev. A 60 no. 1, pp. 262–266 (1999).
					

					Th result  stated in Eq. (3) and proof  given in section . A. At the end of the proof they set  to recover Eq. (3). The fact that they did not assume any form for  means it must hold for any function. There , ever, one step that  cannot justify. n Eq. (9)  can they write:  f  can even justify the above equality (for my case) then 'm set.

				
					 am rather confused because it would seem that mathematical conclusions  have drawn here goes against my physical intuition, though both aren't too reliable to begin with.

					We have a potential step described by 

					and a wavefunction  that satfies the equation 

					 wh to find the probability of reflection. By continuity constraints at   have arrived at the reflection amplitude being  where  and  then we let  giving , so 

					

					But  would have guessed that  should vanh at the limit so that the incident wave  totally transmitted!

					Could someone please explain

				
					n quantum mechanics, particles are described by wave functions,  describe probability amplitudes. n quantum field theory, particles are described by excitations of quantum fields.   the analog of the quantum mechanical wave function s it a spectrum of field configurations (in analogy with QM wave functions' spectrum of particle observables), where each field configuration can be associated with a probability amplitude Or  the field just essentially a superposition of infinitely many wave functions for each point along the field (as if you quantized a continuous mattress of infinitesimal coupled particles) 

				
					While proving that no matter can reach the speed of light (a fact   call the kinetic energy barrier), Einstein uses the fact that he can calculate the velocity and position of an electron. ever, if quantum effects apply, then it seems to create a problem in Einstein's assumptions themselves.   the proof of the kinetic energy barrier true even though quantum effects ext in nature

				
					Sorry if it's a newbie question, but  have trouble understanding the following part in the Wikipedia's explanation for the Bell's theorem:

					
					  With the measurements oriented at intermediate angles between these basic cases, the extence of local hidden variables could agree with a linear dependence of the correlation in the angle but, according to Bell's inequality (see below), could not agree with the dependence predicted by quantum mechanical theory, namely, that the correlation  the negative cosine of the angle. Experimental results match the curve predicted by quantum mechanics.
					

					Accompanied with the following plot sing corellation as a function of angle:
					

					But, the thing that troubles me  that  can't find the proof to that reasoning. A projection of a line onto an ax  the cosine of its angle, right

					To clarify, if  slightly modify the image from that article, let's say you measure particles A and B using parallel detectors:
					

					The results are perfectly correlated (well, anti-corellated, but that's due to spins being different), as expected.

					Now, if you deflect the B measurement device slightly (, since that's where the "large classical error" happens), we can represent it like th:
					

					As a complete newb, my knee-jerk reaction would be that detector B would detect a projection of  length, compared to the detector B, as sn in the detail:
					

					 does the classical theory predict linear correlation, then

				
					Cooper pairs are one of the models  superconductivity  explained.

					 still baffles me   a vibration of the crystal lattice (the so-called phonon) can interact with the electron (an actual particle), in such a way that it then creates a coupled pair with an other electron...

					  the explanation for th behaviour   the maths behind it

				
					 just came across th article where they are claiming that they have photographed light behaving both as a wave and a particle!

					The paper has been publhed in Nature Communications and  read the abstract  says,

					
					  Surface plasmon polaritons can confine electromagnetic fields in
					  subwavelength spaces and are of interest for photonics, optical data
					  storage devices and biosensing applications. n analogy to photons,
					  they exhibit wave–particle duality, whose different aspects have
					  recently been observed in separate tailored experiments. Here we
					  demonstrate the ability of ultrafast transmsion electron microscopy
					  to simultaneously image both the spatial interference and the
					  quantization of such confined plasmonic fields. Our experiments are
					  accomplhed by spatiotemporally overlapping electron and light pulses
					  on a single nanowire suspended on a graphene film. The resulting
					  energy exchange between single electrons and the quanta of the
					  photoinduced near-field  imaged synchronously with its spatial
					  interference pattern. Th methodology enables the control and
					  vualization of plasmonic fields at the nanoscale, providing a
					  proming tool for understanding the fundamental properties of
					  confined electromagnetic fields and the development of advanced
					  photonic circuits.
					

					They do not really talk about photographing light but instead they seem to talk about Surface plasmon polaritons. The Wikipedia article says that the "polariton"  a quasiparticle. ever, they still claim to have photographed light behaving both as a wave and a particle.

					s th a valid interpretation of the experiment

				
					 a quantum system have a double degenerescence at one point, the Hamiltonian should be proportional to Pauli matrices near th point (also known as diabolic point) [Ref.]. But,  the Hamiltonian have th form

				
					 need to measure the atoms spin along a direction perpendicular to the z-ax but at an angle 
					
					with the x-ax.

					They then get the output of the spin measured  + with probability 
					
					s there a general formula  can use to compute the + spin state and then form that determine th probability

				
					Taking off from the Rutherford-Bohr model,

					
					Figure 1. Rutherford-Bohr model.

					when an electron absorbs energy (from light, heat, or otherwe) it jumps to a higher energy level, or shell. Then when the electron loses that energy, it reverts back to a lower-numbered shell.

					Now that the atomic orbital model  now more widely accepted,  does the above concept relate to it

					
					Figure 2. Atomic orbitals 1s, 2s, 2px, 2py, and 2pz.

					 understand that the orbital model  based on the preme that we can never pinpoint the exact location of an electron at any time, hence the electron cloud, or probability density representation. Let's take a hydrogen atom for example. ts lone electron will be likely to be found in the volume defined by 1s. f that  excited to a higher energy level, will it be more likely to be found in the volume defined by 2s

					 about for other elements with more electrons  excited, will they follow the electron placement rules as sn below ( wonder   couldn't find 2px, 2py, 2pz in the illustration below, but that's probably for another question)

					
					Figure 3. Electron placement.

					 may have some terms and concepts mixed up, so corrections will be much appreciated. Also, please keep the jargon to a minimum, if possible.

					All pictures are from Wikipedia.

				
					n Feshbach resonance model, a 22 potential term with space dependent diagonal and non-diagonal terms  written 
					
					 are these terms physically produced An example of Feshbach resonance that can be taken  of two atoms far apart from each other in a singlet or triplet state when close together, are coupled via a hyperfine interaction of one's electron's moment with the nuclear moment of another.   think  that these terms are a combination of the 22 Lennard-Jones potential and the magnetic energy (due to non-zero magnetic moment) term combined but would like to get a detailed picture of generating such a 22 potential interaction.

				
					Let us consider any pure state . ts reduced bipartite density matrix represent a pure state or mixed state depending on whether   entangled or not (exactly  it  entangled, on  system we take the partial trace, etc). 

					My question  given any arbitrary (mixed) state , can we find out a  pure state  (or in some suitable higher dimension  needs to be determined) such that   the reduced density matrix of . n particular,  do not want only an extential result,   also want to an algorithmic method to determine such  . Obviously such state will not be unique. Advanced thanks for any help. 

				
					 see in Wikipedia that the Bloch-Siegert shift  analogies to the rotating pot lid, could you explain that analogy

					
					  The Bloch-Siegert shift  a phenomenon in quantum physics that becomes important for driven two-level systems when the driving gets strong (e.g. atoms driven by a strong laser drive or nuclear spins in NMR, driven by a strong oscillating magnetic field).
  
					   the rotating wave approximation(RWA)  invoked, the resonance between the driving field and a pseudospin occurs when the field frequency   identical to the spin's transition frequency. The RWA , ever, an approximation. n 1940 Bloch and Siegert sed that the dropped parts oscillating rapidly can give re to a shift in the true resonance frequency of the dipoles.
  
					  The pot lid  rotating around an ax along the surface of the table that  quickly rotating. Th results in a secondary rotation   perpendicular to the table. Th  equivalent to the Bloch-Siegert shift and can be seen by watching the motion of the red dot.
					

					

				
					s it inherently problematic to quantize classical theories with local symmetries For example, consider the action of EM but now interpret  as physical. At a classical level, there  nothing prevent me from doing that (although it might give one an uncomfortable feeling). s there anything preventing me from making th into a quantum theory ndeed, it seems  can just write down the path integral of th,  will in fact coincide with the gauge-invariant path integral of standard EM --- up to a global (irrelevant) constant  measures the volume of the gauge orbits (  just the constant volume of the gauge group).

					Note:  am aware that the usual procedure  problematic since the propagator  not well-defined. That  not an intrinsic problem, though, and  rather a short-coming of the perturbative point of view. ndeed, lattice gauge theory can quantize theories without fixing a gauge, circumventing the aforementioned propagator-sue.

					n fact, if  simply take a  lattice gauge theory and ignore the constraint, it seems  have a perfectly well-defined quantum theory with a local symmetry At the same time, it seems surpring from a conceptual point of view: symmetries  are local in time are already very weird at a classical level since it implies an underdeterminedness at the level of  (even fixing initial and final values, one can smoothly deform  at intermediate times). Th would suggest that a Hamiltonian formulation (where   taken to be physical) would be problematic. f  take a lattice gauge theory and ignore any gauge constraints,  the theory underdetermined (A counter-example seems to be the toric code : for  th  a gauge theory with constraint , ever for  finite th can be interpreted as a physical model with a local symmetry, yet it  not undetermined. A possible way out: explicitly adding  to the Hamiltonian might be equivalent ---in a Lagrangian picture--- to destroying the symmetry that was local in time (clearly keeping the symmetry   local in space))

				
					The maximum achievable probability of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt game    can be proved with Tsirelson's inequality. But  don't imagine that th remained unknown until Tsirelson's 1980 paper.   was it first known that th constant  optimal

					 must admit&mdash;shamefully&mdash; have not read the famous 1969 paper, so if the strategy's optimality  proved there my apologies.

				
					The Hamiltonian of the  honeycomb lattice  
					
					Where .

					f we do a time reversal transformation(according the answer to th post): , . We can s that the Hamiltonian  invariant.

					On the other hand, if we recall that the time reversal operator for the spin-1/2 particles can be written as , time reversal symmetry means the Hamiltonian commutes with the time reversal operator. Th leads to .

					My question  1)    applied to ; can anyone s me  to do th calculation 2)  can  combine these two view points, i.e. the transformation sn above and the commutation relation below

					Another confusion : Does linearly polarized light break time reversal symmetry

					f we represent homogenous linearly polarized light by a vector field , similarly to th article. 

					The Hamiltonian can be written as:
					

					Again if we do a time reversal transformation: , . We can also s that the Hamiltonian  invariant.

					ever, if we represent the light by a vector potential , then a time reversal transformation leads to .  The Hamiltonian seems not time-reversal invariant.  to solve th contradiction, since from a physical point of view, linearized light has no angular momentum, thus should not break time-reversal symmetry.

				
					One can view QM as a 1+0 dimensional QFT, fields are only depending on time and so are only called operators, and  know a way to derive Schrodinger's equation from Klein-Gordon's one.

					Assuming a field  with a low energy  with  the mass of the particle, by defining  such as  and developing the equation 

					 

					neglecting the  then one finds the familiar Schodinger equation:

					

					Still,  am not fully satfied about the transition field  wave function, even if we suppose that the number of particle  fixed, and the field know acts on a finite dimensional Hilbert Space (a subpart of the complete first Fock Space for a specific number of particles). Does someone has a reference to another proposition/argument for th derivation

					Edit: for reference, the previous calculations are taken from Zee's book, QFT in a Nutshell, first page in Chapter .5.

				
					Alice and Bob are each in possession of one half of a maximally entangled pair of particles.  Alice can make either of two observations,  or .  Bob can make either of two observations,  or .  (Observations have values  or ).  Write  for the expected value of the product .  Then Tsirelson's Bound says that
					  bounded above by .  

					Question:  s the converse true  That , suppose  have four numbers .  Suppose they are all bounded by one in absolute value and that they satfy .  Does it follow that there are observables  such that , , etc.

					f not,  other conditions do  need on  in order for such observables to ext

				
					Lamb 1969 states,

					
					  A mconception  most physicts acquire in their formative years  that the photoelectric effect requires the quantization of the electromagnetic field for its explanation. [...] n fact we shall see that the photoelectric effect may be completely explained without invoking the concept of "light quanta."
					

					The paper gives a description in  an atom  ionized by light, with the atom being treated quantum-mechanically but the light being treated as a classical wave.

					s it true that all the standard treatments in textbooks are getting th wrong

					Lamb and Scully "The photoelectric effect without photons," in "Polarization, Matière et Rayonnement," Volume in Honour of A. Kastler (Presses Universitaires de France, Par, 1969) -- can be found online by googling

				
					f  understand correctly, in many context in physics (quantum mechanics), a physical system  specified by giving its Hamiltonian.  also hear that symmetries are rather essential.

					As far as the most natural symmetries are concerned, it seems fairly easy to recogne them. They should apparently be linear self-maps of the underlying Hilbert space,  seems natural enough, and they should surely commute with the Hamiltonian (if you transform the system by symmetry and then use the Hamiltonian to figure out  it evolves, the result should be the same as when you first look at time evolution, and then apply symmetry).

					For a while  thought th  just  a symmetry  supposed to be doing, but then  realed that any map that keeps the eigenspaces of the Hamiltonian invariant would do, and  suspect th  not quite right. Also, there seem also to be some other operators around, often used when defining the Hamiltonian --- 'm not sure if a symmetry  supposed to commute with these as well...

					 would be extremely grateful if someone could explain to me  symmetries of a physical system (viewed from the point of view of the Hamiltonian) actually are, and   it that they are defined like th and not differently. An explanation in layman's/mathematician's terms would be even more appreciated.

					Dclaimer:  am a mathematician, not a physict.

				
					Physical theories have dimensionful constants. Each constant can be found via measurement, by fitting some equation to data. Mathematically, you would expect each constant to be "defined" in th way by exactly one equation. For example, the gravitational constant   introduced in exactly one equation of GR, namely in its presence in Einstein's field equation. (Arguably th  more than one equation, but we'll let that pass, as these equations are tied together by the constraint of general covariance).

					n quantum mechanics, ever,  appears twice in two very different contexts. The first  in Schrodinger's equation

					

					and the second  in the canonical commutation relation

					

					s there any reason  these two 's should be the same, morally speaking Obviously, asking "" about  like th  subjective, but 'm still curious if anyone has any good answers. 

				
					Every system with  or more electrons lies in a Hilbert space , with  and ,  being the -th particle space. So the system has a state . 

					  couldn't come up with  an antymmetric spin ket  when there was more than 3 electrons. Th would mean that the only way of antymmetrizing , for ,  by antymmetrizing only the spatial part.  think it's strange, since for  we do have an antymmetric spin ket (the singlet state), so  wouldn't be such kets for 

					gnoring the spatial part, and assuming , if we want to describe  identical spins , we need to antymmetrize the ket  in the following way

					\

					Let's take, for example, the following ket ( we want to antymmetrize)

					\

					f we only look at the permutations   don't change , we end up with a subgroup , made up of:

					 = permutations   don't change the "" part and don't touch the "" part

					and:

					 = permutations   don't touch the "" part and don't change the "" part

					With  being all the permutations of the form 

					But the thing  that half of the elements of  are even and the other half are odd, so the following sum  zero:

					\

					And a similar computation could have been done to every permutation of , so, noticing that the original ket   a sum of terms like , with  being permutations of   do change it (unlike before), it turns out that  for every  ! (with  antymmetric)

				
					t  well establhed that: 

					'n quantum mechanics, the behavior of an electron in an atom  described by an orbital,   a probability dtribution rather than an orbit. 

					There are also many graphs describing th fact:
					http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electron:
					(hydrogen atomic orbital - one electron)
					n the figure, the shading indicates the relative probability to "find" the electron, having the energy corresponding to the given quantum numbers, at that point.

					My question :  do these symmetries sn in the above article occur
					                 about the 'preferable' ax of symmetries  these

				
					 do different wavelength get impeded more or less when in different materials Moving with the same speed, but a longer physical dtance would imply that the fields oscillate less times in the material, but  don't know  a difference in the number of oscillations would impede the wave-  don't even know  things slow down in general.  some electromagnetic wave would slow down just because it's entering other electromagnetic fields... t would seem to me that the only factor would be time taken to physically move some electron or something in the direction of the fields...
					But that seems to simple of an explanation to me.

				
					ever  have encountered the rotating wave approximation,  have seen "the terms that we are neglecting correspond to rapid oscillations in the interaction Hamiltonian, so they will average to 0 in a reasonable time scale" as the justification for its use. ever, it  not completely clear to me  does th justify that the Hamiltonian that we obtain  a good approximation of the original one, and  was wondering if there  a more rigorous version of the justification, whether it  for a particular system, or in a more general case.

					As an example, something that would be a satfying answer would be a result of the form "f you consider an arbitrary state of the system and any time t large enough, and evolve the system according to the RWA Hamiltonian, we obtain with high probability a state close to the one we would obtain under evolution of the original Hamiltonian". "t large enough", "close" and "high probability" would preferably have some good quantitative description.

				
					As  understand lasers, you start off with a few photons that are in an identical state, and other photons that are created later tend to have the same quantum numbers due to Einstein-Bose stattics. sn't each photon that "joins" the group of preexting ones a clone of the previous ones  doesn't th violate the no-cloning theorem

				
					 understand that bounded states in quantum mechanics imply that the total energy of the state, ,  less than the potential  at + or - spatial infinity. Similarly, the scattering state implies that .

					But  do not understand  for bounded states, the complete set of wave-function solutions to the time-dependent Schrodinger equation  constructed from a dcrete linear combination of solutions, whereas for scattering states, the complete set, or general solution,  instead written as an integral over the continuous value of  (or more appropriately, as a Fourier-type integral). 

					Could anyone clarify  th difference  true for bound and scattering (unbound) states 

				
					n Assa Auerbach's book (Ref. 1), he gave an argument saying that in the normal process of path integral, we lose information about ordering of operators by ignoring the dcontinuous path. 

					 did he want to say  don't think there  any problem related to the ordering of operators.

					References:

					
					Assa Auerbach, nteracting Electrons and Quantum Magnetm, p.102, just below eq. (10.6).
					

				
					We are supposed to give a matrix representation of  for an electron with  and . 

					 read  as . s th correct Then we would have e.g. for 

					
					.

					s th correction correct n that case should  proceed in th way with all the other bas vectors and write the eigenvalues down the diagonal in a matrix

				
					 know that the order parameter does not obey the Schrodinger equation; it instead obeys the Ginzburg-Landau equation. ever,  am unclear as to the situations under  the view of the superconducting order parameter as a macroscopic wavefunction breaks down, as it works to solve many problems.  does it work so well in so many cases (e.g. in explaining flux quantization, London's equation, Mesner Effect, Josephson Effect etc.) Where does it fail

				
					've been reading some papers related to Bell's Theorem  involve Clifford Algebra.  am investigating it for an undergrad project but none of my professors seem to know anything about Clifford Algebras.

					n th one paper,  found the wedge product defined by the "well-known identity (Hodge duality)": 

					've scoured the web for th Hodge duality thing and can only find obscure things about the Hodge star...   way out of my league at th point.

					For context,  and  are arbitrary directions of Stern-Gerlach apparatuses and the bas vectors are e(x,y,z).

					 tried calculating out the wedge of  and  by myself and have gotten th far:

					

					 did out the cross product,  looks similar...

					

					... but n't exactly   need.

					By inspection,  would think that  would have to have that dot product some dappear into the  and one of the vectors in the bivector some also dappear into the  in order to get that cross product.

					From the paper,   defined as a trivector:

					

					Am  making a mtake in using
					

					to simplify Or  it something else

					And in case you're wondering, the paper  talked about th "well-known identity (Hodge duality)" did not cite it... Presumably because it  actually well-known. But not to me, an undergrad, or my professors, who don't study th field.

					( did cross post with SE.Math here.)

					References:

					
					Main article. 
					The critic who references the Hodge duality. 
					(There are MANY more critics; 'm just trying to understand more about Bell's theorem and  JC would attempt th.)
					

				
					'm looking for expressions for the electromagnetic fields (preferably  and ) of a typical photon   localed in space to some extent (i.e. 'm not interested in the infinite plane wave solution of Maxwell's equations).

				
					String theory takes quantum mechanics and tries to make it compatible with gravity. f it turns out to be a theory of everything then would it explain  our world  described by the laws of quantum mechanics 

					 want to understand if the laws of quantum mechanics are the only logical possibility for a low-energy theory potentially derivable from a better understanding of string theory. The other possibility  that they are just strange laws that are dcovered through experiments that can't be reached by pure theoretical reasoning.

					 of the two possibilities  more reasonable from a physics point of view and 

				
					s the radial component  of the hydrogen wavefunction orthonormal Doing out one of the integrals,  find that

					

					ever, the link below says that these wave functions should be orthonormal (go to the top of page 3):

					http://www.phys.spbu.ru/content/File/Library/studentlectures/schlippe/qm07-05.pdf

					Am  doing something wrong Are the radial components orthogonal, or aren't they Are there some kind of special condition on  and  that make  orthogonal Any help on th problem would be appreciated.

				
					n the late nineties Bender has started a research program on   called PT symmetric QM, or non hermitian QM, in  he has sn that if the hamiltonian enjoys a PT symmetry then the spectrum  real even if the hamiltonian was not hermitian. Now a search for "PT symmetric" on the arXiv will return over 400 papers.

					Th relaxation of the hermiticity of the hamiltonian has led to new forms of hamiltonians that have been rejected before because they were non hermitian. t turns out that such PT symmetric hamiltonians can describe real physical systems.

					Since th PT symmetric QM cannot be considered a generalization to conventional quantum mechanics  suppose in  observables are mathematically represented by hermitian operators,  find it intriguing that something like th can describe real physical systems. So  can one understand PT symmetric QM from first principles  mean  does it fit in the grand picture,  it works 

				
					t  sometimes stated that any classical underpinnings (rightly non-local) of a general quantum system are unrealtic or unphysical because these require exponentially more information to store  the quantum system can. For example, to simulate  qubits in general we need  classical variables. n other words, the classical system doesn't scale well.   th considered a shortcoming of the classical system (besides from a practicality point of view)

					Can we not turn th question around as follows:

					On the whole, a quantum many-body system (e.g. Fock state, quantum field, etc.) has a very large state-space, say, of dimension . Yet from it's dynamics, only  classical units of information emerge. (Caveat: multiple classical configurations can ext in superposition; ever, not all of these configurations give re to coherent classical systems). s a quantum system therefore a very inefficient way to do classical mechanics

					 we quantize a 3 bit system, say, we pretend that the system has 3 degrees of freedom. ever, the quantum system lives in a -dimensional Hilbert space. To me it seems that the quantum system has  degrees of freedom.  should we demand that a classical simulator require fewer variables

					Here  an example of some of th type of criticm in an answer by Peter Shor. (My apologies to him if  am mrepresenting him by framing h comments in th way).

					t seems like a cheat to say that quantum computers use "N" qubits (because that's  we see) when, as a dynamical system, their degrees of freedom are among . Because classical physics was dcovered first, it seems that we have gotten used to measuring the size of systems in terms of things like lengths and energies (eigenvalues of operators) rather than dimensions of vector spaces on  those operators act. s th just our classical bias sing

					To be specific,  am not asking about complexity classes here. But if tomorrow somebody posts a paper on the arxiv with a simple, classical, determintic model underlying ordinary quantum mechanics, but the model scales exponentially in the size of the system it models,  it automatically considered uninteresting

					tl;dr:  are determintic classical underpinnings of quantum systems considered flawed because they require an exponential amount of resources to recreate exponentially many degrees of freedom 

				
					Consider the time evolution of an operator in the Heenberg picture:

					

					The question   to evolve the Heenberg operator without having to go back to the Schrödinger picture to find a new operator  at every new time  or pick a particular representation.  t seems like the evolution of  requires we know , so then we'd need an evolution equation for that, and hence need to know  and so forth.

					First, just to be clear 'd like to derive the above Heenberg time evolution equation from the Schrödinger time evolution equation, partly just to make sure all the terminology  agreed upon and partly to s the manner in   don't want to keep appealing back to the Schrödinger picture.

					So, a Heenberg operator  in the Heenberg picture will be defined as a function of time, that for each time,  produces an operator  on the Hilbert space  that can take any abstract vector  in the Hilbert space and give a real number denoted  that just so happens to equal , where   the corresponding operator in the Schrödinger picture, and   the abstract Hilbert space vector that  found from the abstract Hilbert space valued function of time that  the solution to the ODE  in the abstract Hilbert space subject to the initial conditions . So in particular, th means , and note that  have not picked a representation, so these are just regular parameter-time derivatives of a parametrized curve of vectors in an abstract Hilbert space . So both of these operators  and  are operators that take Hilbert space vectors and give Hilbert space vectors.  And again  haven't picked a representation so  and  are functions of  that when they take a number  they give the operators  and  respectively.

					'm aware that some people like to say that it n't a function from real numbers to an operator on a Hilbert space and instead you get some kind of supposed parametrized family of operators with some parametrization by  ( have concerns about th idea for spin dependent operators, but that does not need to be addressed right now). Maybe  shouldn't be so harsh if it  just a hold over from quantization of classical systems, but 'm just trying to evolve a quantum system here, nothing fancy.  That's nice for them if they allegedly want to take a partial derivative.  ever, that means if  want to evolve  from one time to another, 'd have to find not just the operator corresponding to a later time, but a whole parametrized family at a later time, or maybe since they are parametrized already it was already there and there  nothing to solve. Either way,  don't see  that  going to come from the Heenberg picture time evolution equation.

					  think we are ready to derive.  You can consider the quotient:
					 and th  supposed to be (at the very least) an operator that takes any abstract vector  in the Hilbert space  and gives a real number  \

					Now Schrödinger time evolution of vectors  unitary, so if the operator-norm of   uniformly bounded over an interval of  containing zero and the Hilbert space vector was already finite norm then the limit as  goes to zero  exts just fine and equals 

					

					And using Schrödinger time evolution th equals

					

					
					From  we get

					

					 'd like to write as an ODE in the space of operators on the abstract  Hilbert space .  

					Obviously, real life operators can always be written in a time independent manner by internalizing the external interactions.  Same with the Hamiltonian, in  case everything  easy.  Write ,  exts when the Hamiltonian  bounded, and the dynamics always start and stop on a subset of bounded energy so we might as well restrict to that subspace as our abstract Hilbert space .  Then the Heenberg operator satfies

					 so has the following evolution equation ODE in the space of operators on the abstract Hilbert space:

					

					And that's  straightforward and clear  wanted the ODE to be when we wanted to have externally driven operators and Hamiltonians. t's just that if you have to specify the external driving in the Schrödinger picture, it belies the adverted claim that the dynamics happen in the Heenberg picture or that the time evolution equation  in the Heenberg picture.  And if the external driving happens directly in the Heenberg picture, then there n't really a  time evolution equation, they just do the things you said they would by fiat.  Seems like cheating either way.

					f there  no answer, you could answer htorically or soft-question if you can explain  or  th happened and  people say there  dynamical evolution in the Heenberg picture when there are time dependent operators.

				
					Are the different interpretations of Quantum mechanics just different viewpoints of the same physical reality Or can experiments dtinguh them Are they empirically dtinguhable or not

					 have read a paper in  Asher Peres states that quantum mechanics needs no interpretation and we can understand it by a minimum number of necessary postulates. Here  the last paragraph of the paper:

					
					  All th said, we would be the last to claim that the foundations of
					  quantum theory are not worth further scrutiny. For instance, it 
					  interesting to search for minimal sets of physical assumptions that
					  give re to the theory. Also, it  not yet understood  to combine
					  quantum mechanics with gravitation, and there may well be important
					  insight to be gleaned there. ever, to make quantum mechanics a
					  useful guide to the phenomena around us, we need nothing more than the
					  fully constent theory we already have. Quantum theory needs no
					  interpretation.
					

					Th  the link to the paper (it  a paper with only two pages) Peres

					Can you explain  he means when he says "quantum mechanics needs no interpretation" i didn't get it from the paper!. Does he mean that we shouldn't try to assign any objective meaning to the wave function and consider it as reflection of our knowledge about the system f yes, n't it  Copenhagen interpretation says!! (Th  from wiki page of Copenhagen interpretation:"The wave function reflects our knowledge of the system") 

					And finally, has anyone found that minimum number of postulates 

				
					Suppose we have two states

					

					and
					
					where 

					say 

					Can we dtinguh between  and  practically 

					 many times will we have to repeat the measurement experiment in order to be sure that  

					Because  and   very very very close to .

				
					Question: f the wave function  (pointwe or uniformly in mean), then does  converge in quadratic mean (i.e. in ) to 

					s th the source of the term "wave function" 

					

					(Since the energy of a wave  proportional to the square of its amplitude, so if the expected energy of a wave goes to zero, then its ensemble amplitude goes to zero in quadratic mean. Likewe, if the expectation of a wave function goes to zero, then its probability density will decay to zero in /quadratic mean. And the wave function  supposed to have something to do with energy, hence  it being square-integrable has something to do with it having finite energy, and thus in a certain sense  related to an elementary wave.)

					

					Note: Th  a follow-up to my previous question: Do waves and oscillations dsipating energy decrease in amplitude in mean square

				
					 am interested in the link between the Black &amp; Scholes equation and quantum mechanics.

					 start from the Black &amp; Scholes PDE
					
					with the boundary condition
					
					Performing the change of variables  th equation rewrites
					
					with the Black &amp; Scholes Hamiltonian given by
					

					Now  compare th equation with the Schrödinger equation for the free particle of mass  :
					
					with the Hamiltonian (in the coordinate representation) given by
					

					My problem comes from the fact that the various references  am reading for the moment explain that the two models are equivalent up to some changes of variables (namely ,  and the physical time  replaced by the Euclidean time ). ever, their justifications for the presence of the terms
					
					in the Hamiltonian seem very suspicious to me. One of them tells that these terms are "a (velocity-dependent) potential". Another one tells th term  not a problem since it can be easily removed  we choose a frame moving with the particle.

					 have actually some difficulties to justify , even with th term, we can say that the Black &amp; Scholes system  equivalent to the one coming from the quantum free particle.  don't like th potential argument, since (for me) a potential should be a function of  (so it would be ok for example for the  term) but not depending on a derivative.

					Could you give me your thoughts on th problem 

				
					For a 2D Toric code specified by

					
					where  denotes stars,  denotes plackets, and  denotes links, there are known to be critical values of  and  that mark second-order phase transitions. n particular, the regime with the weaker external field  characterized by "confined excitations" while the regime with the stronger external field  characterized by "condensation" of those excitations.  do the wave functions and energies of states in these phases look like mathematically, and  causes th phase transition to occur

					 , and ,  can see that the ground state  given by the "all-up" state in the  bas   an equal superposition of all states in the  bas:
					
					so th state looks like a condensate of -type bosons (electric charges). ever,  am not sure  happens in the other regimes of each phase when   finite.

				
					Actually, 'm still a beginner for Fermi energy and its related band theory. Typically in an intrinsic semiconductor the Fermi energy or the highest occupied energy level of electrons at   placed at the middle of the band gap.   th possible if the band gap doesn't hold any allowed energy state

				
					'll say in advance that  am by no means an expert on Quantum Mechanics.  understand the basic mathematics of it (Wave function and Schrodinger equation), but did not go deeply into it or study it in a complete way.

					 am intrigued by the lessons QM ss us about the nature of reality, and originally when reading about the double slit experiment  just assumed that the measurement by a device at one of the slits collapses the wave function.

					Now  saw a video on YouTube (https://www.youtube.com/watchv=SzAQ36b9dzs)  explains the delayed choice quantum eraser.

					Th video may be a simplification and not the actual experiment done. So 'll mention in short   sn:

					
					t  the same configuration as the double slit experiment but with the addition of a "quantum eraser". We have two slits and we may or may not include detectors at the slits. We also have a "quantum eraser"; th  a device  can change detector results in such a manner that "-way" information can no longer be attained from the detector.
					

					'd like to verify my understanding of th experiment and its conclusions (that it my question; whether  am understanding it correctly):

					
					if the information in the detectors  erased after detection by the detector, but before any observation by the experimenter (of either the detector or the screen), then we get an interference pattern, just as if the detectors were not there. Th seem to suggest that whether we get an interference pattern depends on whether the "-way" information "exts" (at the time of observation by the experimenter). 
					if the experimenter observes the detectors after detection but prior to deletion, we don't get an interference pattern (the wave function collapses); yet detection by the detectors, in itself, does not collapse the wave function (because as mentioned, we can still delete the information and get an interference pattern). Th seems to suggest that observation (and perhaps other actions taken) by the experimenter  different in some way to detection by the detector.
					

					So if  understand the experiment correctly, two main conclusions from it are those  indicated in bold text above. My question  whether my understanding and these conclusions are correct.

					 originally wanted to include a question about my interpretation of these results in terms of the difference between the experimenter and the detector, but th  getting too long, so 'll leave it at that.

				
					 one first encounters quantum mechanics, he learns about Bohr's model of the hydrogen atom and one of h biggest problems - electrons were accelerating and not emitting EM radiation (  sometimes referred to as "radiation friction"). Then when you solve Schrödinger's equation with the following Hamiltonian:
					
					You get stationary states of the electron, eigenfunctions of the Hamiltonian, and no radiation friction  emitted. 

					ever, solving th Hamiltonian classically, also doesn't give any evidence for radiation friction, because it doesn't describe the interaction between the electron and the EM field. 

					So my question ,   th Hamiltonian taken to explain the lack of radiation friction in QM, whereas in classical electrodynamics it  an invalid Hamiltonian for that exact same reason Hope my question was clear, thank you!

				
					s there a pedagogical explanation of   a topological insulator for those that do not even know  the Berry phase  but have a basic understanding of quantum mechanics and solid state physics

				
					 read about  to solve the Schrödinger equation for the quantum harmonic oscillator in one dimension. t started with the Schrödinger equation,
					
					t makes sense to me; that looks like energy conservation. Putting differential equations for the momentum operator,
					
					Then they try to make remove the dimensions from the equation, so they replace  with a dimensionless  some, and divide the whole expression by . They then start a spree of confusing substitutions  mathematically are accurate, but appear to have no physical significance.  don't understand  we do any of that. 's wrong with just staying with those differential equations and waiting for numbers  you can plug in and solve/integrate

					That source said that they're trying to simplify th equation, because it's very messy and difficult to solve, but if you only substitute and cancel terms, you are not adding any new information. So if we aren't adding information to the equations, then 's the point of making these random-looking substitutions  don't see any significance of expressing the energy with no dimensions.

				
					The question in brief:  does it mean, operationally, to rotate an electron

					Elaboration/background:  am trying to understand  representation theory applies to quantum mechanics. A stumbling block for many learners, myself included,  spin. As it happens  already know the story about    not simply connected,  its double cover   simply connected, and  some representations of the latter fail to factor through . While  am no expert in representation theory,  know the basics, and can learn more myself as  need it.

					Rather, my problem  to understand exactly  experimental facts and procedures give us a representation. (n that sense, my question n't really about electrons or even about quantum mechanics, since special relativity "" representation theory too, but my lack of understanding becomes especially acute in the case of spin.)

					The expositions  have looked at usually say something like "when you rotate an electron, the wavefunction transforms like a spinor", but th  only helpful if  know 

					
					 it means to rotate a particle; and
					 to translate, at least in principle, from the physical situation to its mathematical description.
					

					 have looked around at  here, but they are either quite advanced (QFT stuff) or focus on the mathematical machinery as opposed to  that machinery lines up with actual operations on lab equipment. For example, in another thread, Eric Zaslow writes:

					
					  magine going to the rest frame of a massive particle. n th frame, there  rotational symmetry,  means that the Lie algebra of rotations acts on the wave function. So the wave function  a vector in a representation of Lie(SO(3)) = Lie(SU(2)). "Spin"  the label of precely  representation th . Note that while SO(3) and SU(2) share a Lie algebra, they are different as groups, and it  a fact of life ("the connection between spin and stattics") that some particles -- fermions, with half-integral spin -- transform under representations of SU(2) while others -- bosons, with integral spin -- transform under SO(3).
					

					Zaslow's answer

					Th  clearly stated but does not attempt to address my concern here,    operations in the lab translate to Lie group/algebra actions on the state space.

					To put my confusion in even starker terms: if  accept, and  do, that the state space of a particle   or rather the projectivization , then any Lie group  acts on  acts on the state space of the particle. So clearly the extence of an action  not the whole story. The remaining part of the story  the operational significance of the group... think. :)

					So again, but in different words: when the theoretician acts on an electron wave function with a particular element of ,  does the experimentalt do 

				
					According to Ballentine, an irreducible tensor of degree k can be defined as a set of  operators  satfying the following commutation relations:
					
					
					The usual examples employ scalars, vector operators and the irreducible subspaces of cartesian tensor operators. The irreducible tensors that are from these constructs all have integral degree.

					s it possible to have irreducible tensors of half integral degree, for example  f so  there a simple example

				
					We know that quantum Boltzmann equation (QBE)  an equation of motion for the interacting Green's function  when transformed to center of mass and relative coordinates, also coined as Wigner dtribution. Besides, in quantum optics and quantum information, we have another Wigner function for phase space description, defined as . (Certainly, we have more complete definition for more modes and density matrices.)

					Unluckily,  happen to be that kind of person who cares about nomenclature. Both of these two Wigner dtribution functions are quasiprobability dtributions, i.e., not necessarily nonnegative. And  even remember that QBE shares some similar form with certain equation for Wigner function in quantum optics. ever, these are no more than faint traces.  guess they are different things, but there must be some plausible relation. Can anyone shed light on th

					Update
					For anyone who are interested in th question, besides the answer underneath, it may also be helpful to refer to Chap. 4 &amp; 16 of Schieve and Horwitz's book Quantum Stattical Mechanics.

				
					'm a student and  had to give a talk on seminar about Quantum Zeno effect and Anti-Zeno effect to my colleagues (all lteners have had a course in quantum physics, but not a heavy one with all the bra and ket stuff).

					My first idea to give a simple explanation of Zeno's effect was th:
					Let's take a look at exponential decay where the chance for particle or state to survive some time   . f  measure it after time   have chance  that it will still be intact.

					f  instead allow it to do it's things only for time  and then measure it, the survival chance will be   approaches  as  increases. To achieve the same total time,  have to repeat th procedure  times and the total survival probability ... .

					So it obviously doesn't work,  get no Zeno's effect in th way.

					t's interesting that after  gave the talk professor rose and said "Well, th can be easily understood if we look at the exponential decay". Then he started drawing exponent and another exponent that's repeatedly interrupted and reset to initial state after small intervals. Later we agreed that th won't actually work, but the question  -  

					 doesn't th intuitively obvious way doesn't work and  would be the correct law out of  one could see the Zeno's effect s there any elegant way to explain th effect without heavy math and angles of state vectors

					ADDTONAL QUESTON (related):
					s it correct to use name "Quantum Zeno Effect" for turning of polarization by series of inclined polarizers or the thing that  done in th article

				
					when ever  search for th question  always get articles on  to make a quantum entangled  pair, and not  it's kept or mantained. if i were to entangle a pair of electrons,  would  keep the particles entangled for long dtances 

				
					The degeneracy for an -dimensional quantum harmonic oscillator  given by [1] as

					
					   
					

					The   the number of degenerate states. Where of course we have that  and that the eigenvalues of the energy are given by 

					

					 can  derive th formula n the paper as reference  just didn't understand  he used to s that relation. f th question has an answer that  too big for th format then 'll accept a hint to s that, for  we have that  Can th can be deduced in a counting way

				
					 have become interested in quantum steering after ltening a talk and tried to read more about it.  think  am more confused now. My understanding  as follows:

					
					  Sharing a (entangled) state, Bob wants to make a series of
					  measurements  and  Alice wants to make a guess of the measurement
					  outcome.
					

					After   am totally at loss, as a few papers   have seen refers to a steering inequality. ever it  heavily state dependent, and not like Bell (or Bell type) inequalities. Can someone point out some basic references or clear up my confusion.  am sorry for not writing it more clearly. May be by the ,  shall be able to understand.  Advanced thanks for any help.

				
					Usually, in undergrad QM, we see states such as:
					
					Where trivially the + state  symmetric, and the  state  antymmetric. ever,  am a bit confused by the particle exchange procedure. 've mostly convinced myself it  swapping the contents within each ket, rather than swapping the kets themselves.  reason th because there may be a state ,  has to be symmetric, but there are no other terms to swap it with, although 'm not confident. 

					 ask th question because 'm wondering about the symmetry of the state 
					f in fact (as  think), we flip the numbers within each ket, then th state  symmetric. ever if we flip the kets themselves, then th state  antymmetric. Can someone provide insight into th with a physical interpretation

				
					s there an upper limit for  jerk in physics  about higher derivatives 

					A consequence of  special relativity  that no material body can reach or exceed the speed of light in vacuum (due to the relativtic mass increase, or the Lorentz contraction).  

					 am not interested in obtaining these upper limits  based on postulates (and following mathematical implications), like the postulate  of the constancy of speed of light in special relativity.  

					 would like to know whether there are experiments that would lead to these upper limits, as a matter of constency with empirical evidence. For the speed of light in vacuum we have Maxwell's equations. As far as  know, it was establhed experimentally that the constant that appears in Maxwell's equations  the speed of light in vacuum.

					For acceleration,  there  a previous question on StackExchange, s there a maximum acceleration, where in an answer it  dcussed Caianiello's maximum acceleration (the result  linked to Heenberg's uncertainty principle, that's the type of answer that  am interested in, as an example). 

					So for speed and acceleration,   understand that there   experimental evidence that tells us that in order to have constency (with the empirical evidence),  then we must accept that there  a maximum speed and acceleration in physics.

					 am not interested in arguments involving the Planck system of units, since these arguments would be sensitive to the choice of normalization. 

					 about jerk in physics, and higher order derivatives. s there any experimental data that would force us to accept upper limits for these quantities Would it be useful to imagine experimental scenarios that would force us to accept these upper limits

					 will reformulate the question,  for clarity.  will not focus on the chronological emergence of the mathematical models that explain the experimental data.

					n physics, maximum speed can be linked to Maxwell's equations. Maximum acceleration can be linked to Heenberg's uncertainty principle. Does th trend continue,  for jerk and higher derivatives Because  intuition tells me that in physics there must be upper limits/bounds for all of them, and there  a countable infinity of these quantities. 

				
					n the book Gravitation in chapter 2, paragraph 5, they introduce the concept of 1-forms by thinking about the momentum 4-vector differently.

					They first introduce the de Broglie 1-form as follows ( don't understand the following really well):

					
					  suppose we have particle in spacetime. Consider its associated de Broglie wave. f we diffract th, we get a pattern and th gives surfaces of the same integral phases.
					

					Then they introduce the 1-form   has input a vector  in spacetime and outputs a number   denotes the number of pierces through these surfaces by the vector .

					After th they define the momentum 1-form  where we define the surface to be the surfaces of , but multiplied by . Then they claim that if   the ordinary momentum 4-vector then .

					 have to prove th (excerce 2.1) using the quantum-mechanical properties of the de Broglie wave .

					Can someone explain the above a little bit more in detail to me  find th motivation for a defintion of 1-forms not so clear. f  understand it  think  can solve the excerce.

				
					Let  be a unit vector. Then a normalized vector for spin-1/2 in th direction  given by normalizing a column from the pure density matrix: . Th solution works except when . So th gives a normalization choice of spin vector that  continuous over the possible eigenstates of spin with the exception of spin down = .

					t  impossible to choose normalized spin-1/2 vectors for all possible eigenstates of spin-1/2. Th  a fact that  related to Berry-Pancharatnam phase. The best you can do  to leave a single point, as in the above, where there  an essential dcontinuity.

					 'd like to know   other j have spin-j vectors unable to be normalized. That , given all possible eigenstates of spin-j,  it possible to choose one from each ray, such that the choice  continuous

					

					Partial Solution: Per Dr. Motl's answer below, 'll down the situation for a natural representation of spin-1. Choose
					
					
					.

					t's easy to verify that these satfy the  rules , etc. Then the spin operator for spin in the  direction  given by:
					

					and the solution with spin=0 in the  direction  given by the vector . And sure enough, it's impossible to choose the vectors for spin=1 as a continuous function of .

				
					Background

					No SSB in finite systems

					Consider a system interacting with a heat bath at inverse temperature , with the resultant dynamics of the system described by a Liouvillian superoperator . f th system  finite, then under fairly general conditions on , we expect the equilibrium state , meaning , to be uniquely given by the Gibbs state

					

					where   the Hamiltonian of the system.

					Let  be the symmetry group of the Hamiltonian, meaning there  a unitary representation  of  such that  for all . t  clear that we also have , so the Gibbs state preserves all the symmetries of the Hamiltonian. n th sense, it seems that there cannot be spontaneous symmetry breaking (SSB) in finite systems.

					SSB in infinite systems (and KMS states)

					The typical narrative then proceeds to say that, in fact, SSB can occur, but only in infinite systems. Here there  no guarantee that   trace-class, so in general the Gibbs state  not well defined. To extend the notion of a "thermal" state to infinite systems, one usually defines the so-called KMS states. These are the states   satfy the KMS condition,  can (informally) be stated as

					

					for all operators  and  in the operator algebra, where  indicates an expectation value with respect to the state . ( omit all -algebraic details here for brevity.)

					There  a large body of literature sing that KMS states preserve the properties that we consider key to the definition of a thermal state, such as being equilibrium states, but remain well-defined for infinite systems.

					For finite systems,  believe the KMS condition uniquely specifies a state: the Gibbs state. ever, for infinite systems th  not necessarily the case, and, roughly speaking, SSB occurs when there are multiple KMS states, each of   not preserved by the symmetry group of the Hamiltonian.

					Question

					Both experiments and numerical simulations s systems with behaviour that seems very similar to that of SSB (ferromagnets ext!). ever, these real-world systems are clearly finite, so the above arguments would suggest that they cannot truly dplay SSB.   the explanation for th dcrepancy

					Thoughts on an answer

					Though finite, real-world experiments can often by fairly effectively described by taking the infinite size limit. f th  appropriate, then perhaps the dynamics of these large finite systems can be well approximated by infinite systems, at least up to some large timescale   presumably grows quickly with system size. Then we might expect these finite systems to dplay signatures of SSB over the timescale , after  they will decay to the Gibbs state and the symmetry will be restored. f th  along the right lines, can any of th be made prece

				
					t  well known that relativity predicts time moves slowly near massive objects e.g.. time moves slowly for clocks on earth as compared to clocks on GPS satellites by about 40000 nanoseconds.

					Suppose we have 2 quantum entangled particles separated by a large dtance, but with one of them being near a massive black hole.
					We know that time slows down near massive bodies, so that if we try to describe th system with quantum mechanics (in  time  treated just as a parameter) we run into a problem:  clock's time should we use

				
					Several  have been posted on Physics SE regarding the relationship between photons and electromagnetic waves, and several good answers have been given. Some of those  are lted below, but  didn't find any that requested a mathematically explicit analys of  happens &mdash; in terms of photons &mdash; when an oscillating current generates an electromagnetic wave with a macroscopic wavelength, such as a radio wave. 

					'm attempting to fill that gap by posting th question-and-answer. 

					 haven't found an equally explicit / equally narrated analys anywhere else, but less-explicit / less-narrated references include:

					
					tzykson and Zuber, Quantum Field Theory, section 4-1: "Quantized electromagnetic field interacting with a classical source";
					Cohen-Tannoudji, Dupont-Roc, and Grynberg, Atom-Photon nteractions, exerce 17: "Equivalence between a quantum field in a coherent state and an external field", and also exerce 9.
					

					

					Some related posts, from newest to oldest:

					Does a photon require an EM field to ext

					 to interpret a wavepacket in quantum field theory:  it one particle or a superposition of many

					Can the equation  be used not only for light, but for radio waves (Since they are all part of the electromagnetic spectrum)

					Electromagnetic waves and photons

					Photons of a radio wave

					 exactly  meant by the wavelength of a photon

					 call it a particle and not a wave pulse

					s double slit interference due to EM/de Broglie waves And  does th relate to quantum mechanical waves

					  the physical nature of electromagnetic waves

					Relation between Wave equation of light and photon wave function

					Sequence of E and B field in radio waves and in single photons

					Photon Quantum Field proportional to Electromagnetic Field

					Light Waves and Light Photons gedanken Experiment

					Do photons occupy space

					  the classical EM field modeled in quantum mechanics

					Are coherent states of light &#39;classical&#39; or &#39;quantum&#39;

					Amplitude of an electromagnetic wave containing a single photon

					Radio waves within an atom

					Radio waves and frequency of photon

					Reconciling refraction with particle theory and wave theory

					Properties of the photon: Electric and Magnetic field components

				
					 are the various approaches to fault tolerant quantum computation  Two examples are 1. topological quantum computation  uses topological phases in quantum states (2-Dimensional for non-abelian stattics of anyons) and 2. spin-half BEC form (refer http://jqi.umd.edu/news/new-state-fifth-state (Dr. Victor Galitski's research at UMD) ) .
					Can you guide me to the references mentioning various approaches and the challenges associated with them  

				
					
					   am considering a particle within a potential given by  and am attempting to find the energy eigenvalues of the system.
					

					Taking  to be defined piecewe, 've solved the Schrödinger equation in a piecewe manner, finding the solutions, when :
					
					where  and  are Airy functions and , where 've defined  as being such that , and when :
					
					where in th instance , and the other parameters are defined in the same way as previously. 

					Based on the form of the Airy function of the second kind, , both  and  should be zero,  think, and the two functions should equal one another when evaluated at , or, in terms of , when . 

					The other condition  must be met  that their derivatives should equal one another at th point as well. t  beyond th point that  do not know  to proceed.

					n the case of an asymmetric triangular potential, where when , , and   otherwe, because the wavefunction must go to zero at , one can simply solve for the roots of the Airy function and find the energy eigenvalues.

					Th n't the case here, because the condition  that the two wavefunctions must equal one another at . So,  can the energy eigenvalues of the symmetric triangular potential herein be found

				
					Considering an arbitrary unitary operator ,   the least criteria th operator must satfy in order that it  possible to find at least another unitary operator  that anti-commutes with it  s there a generic way to build th operator  

					For example, if one consider a dplacement operator , then, if , it  always possible to find a dplacement operator that  anti-commuting with it. f , then we have .

				
					Does string theory explain the weird things that happens at the quantum level, especially wave-particle duality 

				
					The Feynman Checkerboard Wikipedia article states: "There has been no consensus on an optimal extension of the Chessboard model to a fully four-dimensional space-time."

					  it hard to extend it to more than 1+1 dimensions

				
					 second quantizating the Schrödinger field 

					 

					we have the commutation relations . Now  want to s that .

					 tried substituting the expression for  into the commutator and got 

					
					but  don't quite see  th could help me. Does anybody here have an idea  to s th

				
					t  obvious that dimensional analys can be used to derive many classical mechanics equations (excluding constants). As long as all the dependent quantities are known. 

					My question  whether th  an accepted method to derive formulas or  calculus  a must f so can it be used in advanced areas such as Quantum mechanics and relativtic physics

				
					Context

					n the Aharonov Bohm effect, there   a solenoid  creates a magnetic field. Since the electron cannot be inside the solenoid, the configuration space  not simply connected.

					Question

					've read in th paper, that the path integral   defined only for  paths in the same homotopy class in the configuration space. But  don't see the reason for th. Could someone explain it or give any reference

					t seems that Laidlaw, DeWitt and Schulman have done some work, but  didn't see any proof. And Feynman &amp; Hibbs don't seem to mention it.

					Furthermore, does the same problem are in standard variational calculus when one applies Hamilton's principle

				
					Assume that you have two bipartite systems  then  would like to prove the following:

					

					where   the von Neumann entropy,  and   the maximally mixed state on . t looks like it should pass with some monotony property, any hints or counterexample are welcome. 

				
					The optical pumping experiment of Rubidium requires the presence of magnetic field, but  don't understand . 

					The basic principle of pumping  that the selection rule forbids transition from  of the ground state of  to excited states, but not the other way around (  the total angular momentum of electron and nucleus). After several round of absorption and spontaneous emsion, all atoms will reach the state of , hence the optical pumping effect.

					But  does the Zeeman splitting have anything to do with optical pumping Granted, the ground state, even after fine structure and hyperfine structure considered,  degenerate without Zeeman splitting, but the states with different  still exts.

					n addition,   the strength of optical pumping related to the intensity of magnetic field applied

				
					The quantity  appears in quantum mechanics by the canonical commutation relation
					
					Would it be sensible to quantize different conjugate variable pairs with different values of , or  such a theory nonsensical For example, we might postulate two types of particles,  and , with
					
					where both  and  are classically canonically conjugate. Th question also applies to quantum fields, where we can use different values of  for the field and field momentum commutation relations. s such a theory automatically not mathematically self-constent, or  it simply not physically useful s there any physical situation to  th would apply

					

					Th really  a nontrivial change that cannot be "scaled away". For example:

					
					Excitations will have "incompatible" de Broglie relations, i.e.  and . A system with definite energy would not necessarily have definite frequency!
					Another example  that semiclassical states take up phase space area , so 'm considering a setup where states of different systems are allowed to take up different areas. 
					Alternatively, think about quantizing the system by canonical quantization where  and  are canonically conjugate pairs. Obviously, in the standard canonical quantization, the value of  matters, because it sets the scale of quantum effects. So if  choose different values of  to quantize  and , the result will not be standard quantum mechanics.
					

					'm already aware that th  not  happens in ordinary quantum mechanics; 'm wondering if th modification of quantum mechanics has any use.

				
					 understand that the EM field has an EM charge and that a nucleus made of neutrons and protons has an opposite EM charge, and th attracts. 

					And because the electron's kinetic energy (that would make the electron fly away) repels, so the attraction and the repelling equal out.

					So the electron  in a stable quantized energy level in the EM field (it will not change its energy level without for example a photon absorption), and it also makes the nucleus stable.

					 understand the neutron does not have EM charge and that strong force and residual strong force (nuclear force) works between two neutrons, keeps them stick together.

					Question:

					
					Can a nucleus of only neutrons ext, and be stable Can the nuclear force work between two neutrons even without protons next to them
					Can th nucleus ext and be stable (since it does not have EM charge) without an EM field
					

				
					QFT says that an unlimited number of bosons can occupy the same "state" (  mean by that  that the whole system's wavefunction  composed of a product of many identical wavefunctions).

					ever, gravity increases monotonically with energy density.  t seems that at some point, one additional boson would create a high enough energy density to create a black hole.  s th true  Could  calculate the number of bosons necessary to cause th

				
					 am a first year PhD math student, and must decide: should  study Quantum Mechanics, although  don't have undergrad background in Physics

					Let me be more specific about my situation:

					
					Background: 'm a first year PhD math student with undergraduate background in Computer science.  switched from Computer Science to Math because  want to study Quantum Computing, in particular involving Quantum Mechanics.  only learned "general physics" (for non-physicts) in my undergraduate studies, and in particular didn't learn anything about Lagrangians or Hamiltonians, and very little about Maxwell's or Schr&ouml;dinger's equations; and that was some time ago now besides.
					  also don't know anything about Partial Differential Equations, and am planning to review my Linear Algebra.
					Situation: My math department allows me to take one qualifying exam in Math and the other in another department (though the procedure  rather complicated.)  wh that  could take Quantum Physics as the second qualifying exam, but  should be extremely cautious about th decion. (To me, qual exams in my math department are really challenging, not to mention in other department).
					Now,  have to take some undergrad courses in math since  did not have math knowledge in undergrad, so if i take physics courses then the time to meet my math degree requirement has to last longer.
					Expectation:
					 want to study Quantum nformation/Computing and in the long term to study Quantum Mechanics.  think the sooner  take the course Quantum Mechanics, the better  study Quantum nformation/Computing, but  know everything  not as easy as  expect.
					

					Do  need to prepare more before taking graduate Quantum Mechanics

					Your suggestion, experience will definitely help me to decide.
					Thank you.

				
					Consider the hamiltonian for a helium atom,
					
					where  have taken out the electrostatic interactions between the two electrons and changed it to a contact interaction of strength  to try and simplify things.

					 would like to know to  extent th model  solvable, and if possible to  extent it has been explored in the literature. t  a natural thing to try, but it  also likely to be buried under the (more relevant) physics of actual electrostatic interactions between the electrons, so who knows 's out there.

					 ask because, as  mentioned in th answer, th  a very simple model that  still likely to s autoionization for all doubly excited states, as normal helium does, and it's a good test case to see  that comes about and  the bare-bones features of that mechanm actually are.

					As such, 'm interested in

					
					 one can say about the ground and singly excited states in a Hartree-Fock perspective,
					to  extent one can fully solve the two-body Schrödinger equation for bound states with th interaction,
					 the different Hartree-Fock configurations look like for the doubly excited states as well as the corresponding singly ionized continua at those energies,
					 the Fano mechanm uses the entangling contact interaction to couple those two sectors, and  the resulting Fano resonances look like, and
					whether the simplified interaction lets us say more about those autoionizing resonances beyond  one can say via the Fano theory.
					

					As mentioned in the comments, th localized contact interaction  unlikely to impose autoionization on double excitations that have an exchange-symmetric spin state (since then the spatial part  antymmetric and the electrons never coincide), so the main thrust of the question  on the (antymmetric) spin singlet states, where the nontrivial physics should happen.

				
					've been reading these notes and  can't figure out the  on P.120, it  said that 

					
					  The fermionic stattics mean that the ﬁrst diagram
					  has an extra minus sign relative to the ψψ scattering of Figure 25.
					

					Would someone mind explaining it to me  see that the calculations below, illustrating th, but  there an intuitive way of seeing that the signs of the respective first diagrams in Figures 25, 27 should be opposite

					Thank you.

				
					t  a very dumb question but,  once read that fusion was possible when the wavefunction that describes the position of a particle overlaps with the wavefunction of other particle, but  think  don't fully understand th. Does th means that those particles have the same probable position Do they have the same position ( don't think they have the same position because of the Pauli's exclusion principle but  don't know much about th.)

				
					 tried searches and the question has been posed in other fora, but no experiment came up. 

					Track chambers (cloud chambers, bubble chambers , time projection chambers, solid state detectors like the vertex detectors at LHC)  give the track of the particle as it ionizes the  medium, and could be carried out in geometry after the particle has passed the double slit. The straight track should be pointing back to the slit it came from and its record could be used as the points on the screen in the classical double slit experiment.

					The set up as  see it would be the classical setup for single electron through the double slits but instead of a "screen" one has a detector and detects the track.  t should be a long enough detector to get an accuracy less than the slit difference so it could point back to the slit, as the interslit dtance  of the order of 100 microns and detectors are giving order of microns accuracies.

					Th experiment, if possible,  would resolve the controversy whether the detection of the slit destroys the interference pattern or the detection elements at the slits change the boundary conditions and destroy the interference pattern.

					An expert's opinion  necessary whether the experiment  possible, whether the energies of the electrons to s interference with a specific d separation  enough to create an accurate track in a solid state detector. f not a cloud chamber would do , but again the energy of the electron would be important because it would have to pass the barrier air/chamber.

					t could succeed if the double slits were within a cloud/ bubble chamber; the beam count was low  (10 to twelve per picture) but it was spread in the vertical direction. f the beam could be focused on the slits , it should be doable. 

				
					Briefly,  physical theories are expected to be time reversal invariant That , the mapping of  will not alter the physics.

					Even in Classical Mechanics (CM) it  not obvious if time reversal ought to leave things invariant:

					
					On the one hand the three laws of Newton seem to be time-agnostic. (e.g. in the second law, reversing the time leaves the accelaration unchanged).
					On the other hand we know in reality all systems are lossy, e.g. friction  unavoidable, th alone suffices to break any chance of time reversal invariance.
					Th can be easily exemplified, if we take for example a damped oscillator, the Newton's equation of motion  no longer time symmetric, that : 
					

					 guess the last latter point boils down to the second law of thermodynamics.
					n Quantum Mechanics (QM), from the Schrödinger's equation one can s that a simple mapping of  will not render the physics invariant, since an additional antilinear mapping of the wavefunction  required, in the sense that only if   chosen, the equation remains the same.

					

					:

					
					Am  going completely bonkers with any of the above observations
					More importantly,  would it mean for a physical theory to be time reversal invariant ( don't mean th in the trivial sense, but rather in a grander scheme of things, if we have physical theories that are symmetric in time and those that aren't,  do they stand together in a unified description of nature) - feel free to dcuss the complement of th question if you see it fit.
					Do we not expect all physical theories to be continuously symmetric in time due to the conservation of energy
					s the notion of time in our current understanding of General Relativity and Relativtic Quantum theories in conflict with one another
					

				
					 mean to say, can you make someone understand the problem who only knows Mathematics, even if a Physics description  absent  mean, describing the problem with unification using pure Mathematical formulation.

					Can we make the problem seem as if it has nothing to do with the real world and describe it only as a problem of mathematics

				
					Can someone describe a simple experiment to convince a person thinking about physics classically (called Claus) that quantum mechanics has something weird, entangled

					 mean an experiment that he wouldn't been able to explain classically. t should not be one of these proofs that introduces abstract equations and frameworks, derives inequalities and argues indirectly. t should be down to earth such as saying:

					"Here  the experiment... Here  a possible outcome of measurements after N experiments...AABBAAB... Please propose a classical (hidden variable) explanation to reproduce th or convince yourself of the impossibility otherwe."

					Basically the goal  to explain the effect in h words and thinking. For a particular setting Claus will try to propose a classical explanation. He would like to be proven wrong rather than asked to examine an indirect argument of the quantum mechanics.

					 know basic quantum mechanics and can fill the calculation gaps. 've seen common Bell inequalities but find it hard to extract such a classical-view-only argument.

				
					According to special relativity if an object  in motion relative to your frame of reference it contracts in the direction of its momentum. Thus, if a wave-particle duality, such as an electron, appeared to be moving from your frame of reference it  my understanding that said particle's wave form would appear contracted from your frame of reference.  

					Th contraction would seemingly result in a particle's location being determinable to a greater degree of certainty with no cost to the degree of certainty with  an observer could determine the particle's momentum  would contradict the Heenberg uncertainty principle and the limit it applies to the information an observer could collect about said particle.  

					So,   the explanation for th s the Heenberg uncertainty principle only applicable to particles at rest relative to the observer s Planck's constant relative (does it dilate proportionally with the momentum of said particle) Or, alternatively, have  minterpreted either special relativity or the uncertainty principle 

				
					f vectors  and  are defined as 

					

					then one can see that products like

					

					do not converge,  means that  and  do not belong to a Hilbert space as it  necessary that . So  should one understand these objects and  space do they belong to

				
					n th Wikipedia page there's a statement about 1S orbital as solved from Dirac equation:

					
					  Note that   a little less than , so the top function  similar to an exponentially decreasing function of  except that at very small  it theoretically goes to infinity (but th behavior appears at a value of  smaller than the radius of a proton!).
					

					For comparon, when solving radial part of Schrödinger's equation for hydrogen, we explicitly strive to avoid solution   singular at the singular point of potential.

					n Dirac equation it seems that the only justification of allowing unbounded solution  a physical one, not mathematical. t looks very inconstent with  've seen when solving various problems with Schrödinger's equation.

					So   Dirac equation's solution allowed to be unbounded  are the boundary and smoothness conditions on the wavefunction

					 suspect that Dirac equation simply doesn't admit S states with bounded wavefunction in Coulomb potential. Can it then be sn that if we start from a spherically-symmetric wave packet with a zero in its center, then its evolution in Coulomb field will inevitably lead to formation of similar  singularity

				
					The Hamiltonian of tight binding model reads ,   there a negative sign in the hopping term

				
					n Landau and Lifshitz's Stat Mech Volume   the comment:

					
					  ever, despite th symmetry, quantum mechanics does in fact involve an 
					  important non-equivalence of the two directions of time. Th appears in connection with the interaction of a quantum object with a system  with 
					  sufficient accuracy obeys the laws of classical mechanics, a process of fundamental significance in quantum mechanics. f two interactions A and B with 
					  a given quantum object occur in succession, then the statement that the probability of any particular result of process B  determined by the result of 
					  process A can be valid only if process A occurred earlier than process B 
  
					  Thus in quantum mechanics there  a physical non-equivalence of the two directions of time, and theoretically the law of increase of entropy might be its macroscopic expression.  n that case, there must ext an inequality involving the quantum constant   ensures the validity of th law and  satfied in the real world.  Up to the present, ever, no such relation has been at all convincingly sn to ext.
					

					Has there been such convincing work relating the direction of time and  since these comments were first made (somewhere between 1937 and 1975 by the dates in the prefaces)

				
					 finding the dcrete energy states of a operator  have been taught to use the time-independent Schrodinger equation  restates the definition of eigenvalues and eigenvectors.   don’t understand   the eigenvalues are the energy states,  there firstly a mathematical reason and secondly a physical reason

					Does th are from Hamiltonian or Lagrangian mechanics   am not familiar with

				
					'm currently trying to find my way into the geometric description of Quantum Mechanics.  therefore started reading: 

					
					  Geometry of state spaces. n: Entanglement and Decoherence (A. Buchleitner et al., eds.). Lecture Notes in Physics 768, Springer Verlag, Berlin, New York, 2009, 1-60. 
					

					A document that can also be found as a manuscript via: 
					http://www.physik.uni-leipzig.de/~uhlmann/PDF/UC07.pdf 

					Even though  thought that  have a solid background in abstract algebra  some got lost in Chapter 2 when he's trying to classify all the *-algebras that represent actual physical systems (starting at page 24 in the document).

					Do you have some recommendations for texts that introduce the *-algebra language in Quantum Mechanics in a more 'detailed' way. Because  kind of have the feeling that at a certain point Uhlmann just keeps skipping steps and  also lack some of the physical intuition concerning partial traces, canonical traces, purification and all that. From time to time 'd also be happy to see a concrete example. 

				
					 know that the title of the question  rather vague, so let me clarify   mean.

					For a quantum system, the set of states has infinitely (even continuously) many extreme points, i.e. there are infinitely many pure states. By the set of states,  mean the convex set of density operators  on a Hilbert space  rather than the set of unit vectors in the Hilbert space . So  am talking about a convex subset of the vector space of Hermitian operators on  (for my puroposes, we can restrict to finite dimensions).

					For example, the set of states for a spin-1/2 particle  given by the Bloch ball. Every point on the boundary of the Bloch ball  an extreme point of the Bloch ball and therefore a pure state. Th boundary  a sphere, containing continuously many states.

					 am wondering whether there are physicts who have come up with reasons  the set of states of a (quantum) system should be dcretized instead of continuous in the sense that it should only have finitely many extreme points / pure states. To see geometrically   mean, see the following figure:

					

					More precely, my question :  are possible reasons or motivations  the set of states of a (quantum) system should be the convex hull of finitely many points (i.e. a polytope), instead of having infinitely many pure states

					Looking for such reasons,  have come across papers like th one:

					Dcreteness and the origin of probability in quantum mechanics

					They say that quantum-gravitational considerations might suggest some kind of dcretization of the states of a system. First of all,  don't really understand their argumentation yet  there should be dcreteness. Moreover, 'm not sure whether the kind of dcreteness they propose  the same as the one 'm asking for (e.g. 'm not sure whether their state spaces are convex).

					f anyone can help me with th kind of argumentation (by explaining it or pointing to additional sources) or if anyone has come across other arguments for dcreteness,  would be glad to see them.

					'm aware of the fact classical systems can be described by a simplex, therefore bearing th kind of dcreteness. ever, 'm interested in reasons  quantum state spaces should be dcretized.

					EDT: 

					Thanks for the answers so far. Perhaps  should be clear about a few things:  do not think that quantum state spaces are dcrete, and  do not really try to justify dcreteness of quantum state spaces.  also see reasons  a quantum state space cannot be dcrete.  am just curious whether other physicts have come up with justifications or reasons for dcreteness.  To see  ideas are ruled out by arguments against dcreteness.

					The answers so far are not uninteresting, but they provide reasons  a quantum state space should not be dcrete.  see that my question some asks for justification of something that cannot be, but  am still interested in  possible motivations for dcreteness there could be.

				
					Let's, for example, take a ribosome. t  an enzyme that  in turn just a molecule that must follow the laws of physics.

					Correct me if 'm wrong, but it can be looked upon as a molecular machine made up of several pieces.  exactly makes those pieces work together

					 does the ribosome bind to a strand of RNA s it just the shape and electric charge or  it something more Once the ribosome  bound to a piece of RNA,  does it move

					n a way, 'm looking for the "ghost in the machine". 'm interested in molecules in general, not just ribosomes.   it that, on a level of single atoms, makes molecules "alive" - move, assemble a protein, etc. 

					Let me give a hypothetical example:

					magine a strand of carbons. Also imagine that there exts a molecule that can move along th strand.  would it do it  forces would move it along th strand s it electromagnetm Would gravity be involved to a significant degree  effect would shape have

				
					Motivation: The neutral pion decays to 2 photons () most of the time. For the decay of the neutral to 3 photons  ()  we have an upper limit on the branching ratio of  in the Particle Data Book (2012). The explanation  that th decay would violate charge conjugation. 

					 haven't found anything about angular momentum conservation in th decay: The pion has spin zero, the photon  a spin-one particle, but, being massless, a (free) photon cannot have 0 for the projection of the spin. 

					Now, my question : Can  combine three photons to give a spin-zero state such that angular momentum in the  decay  conserved

					Thoughts: For "ordinary" spin-zero particles the spin addition  described by the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients. From the tabulated CG coefficients  see that  can combine  to give a  state with zero contribution from . So  could add two photons, giving  and  (the important point being that all other possibilities are ruled out by the requirement of the photon not having ).  could then add the third photon on top, argueing along the same lines. 

					Does that make sense s the application of the formalm correct

					(Sorry for writing so much text about a simple question.)

				
					Quantum entanglement links particles through time, according to th study that received some publicity last year:

					
					New Type Of Entanglement Allows 'Teleportation in Time,' Say Physicts at The Physics arXiv Blog - Technology Review 
					S.J. Olson, T.C. Ralph, Extraction of timelike entanglement from the quantum vacuum, arXiv:1101.2565
					S.J. Olson, T.C. Ralph, Entanglement between the Future and the Past in the Quantum Vacuum, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 110404 (2011)

					
					  Timelike entanglement may be regarded as a non-classical resource in a manner analogous to the spacelike entanglement that  often studied in the Minkowski vacuum, since any quantum information theoretic protocol may utilize conversion of timelike entanglement to spacelike entanglement as a step in the protocol.
					  
					   have read all the reviews in the popular press, most of the "time-travel-dcovered" type, but  am looking for more sober comments, i.e. material written by physicts who have studied the paper.  does th result really mean  would appreciate pointers to reviews, comments etc.
					

				
					Let's say we are doing the double slit experiment with electrons. We get an interference pattern, and if we put detectors at slits, then we get two piles pattern because we measure electrons' positions when going through slits. But an electron interacts with other particles in a lot of different ways, e.g. electric field, gravity. Seems like the whole universe  receiving information about the electron's position.   it not the case and the electron goes through slits "unmeasured"

					Bonus question: in real experiments do we face the problem of not "shielding" particles from "measurement" good enough and thus getting a mix of both patterns on the screen

				
					According to the special theory of relativity, dtant simultaneity depends on the observer's reference frame.

					And, according to the quantum theory, in the case of two entangled particles, a measure on one of the particles simultaneously affects the second one. Under  reference frame  th simultaneous

				
					 saw the question  are field quanta but it's a bit advanced for me and probably for some people who will search for th question.

					 learned QM but not QFT, but  still hear all the time that "particles are the quanta of fields" and  don't really understand  it means.

					s there a simple explanation for people who know QM but not QFT

				
					 am searching for not too old literature on the quantum description of unstable particles.  am referring to something beyond the ad-hoc S-matrix description based on the optical theorem common to textbooks such as those given by Peskin and Schröder or Weinberg etc. The book "Open Quantum Systems and Feynman ntegrals" by Exner seems to go in th direction. But  find the formulation there very mathematical. Certainly it  possible to understand it but  am worried if  will get the connection to physics.

				
					Schrödinger's equation  supposed to be a differential equation for the wave function of a particle. As  currently understand, De Broglie's hypothes  a hypothes that for particles there should be some wave function  with wavelength  such that

					

					Where   the particle's momentum and   Planck's constant. As  understand, th hypothes  based on the following: for light, we know there  a wave function, but we also know that it has particle behavior and we know that  holds, in that case we want the converse for particles.

					The hypothes, ever, doesn't tell  differential equation th wave function satfies. n that case, Schrödinger's equation  the answer to that, saying that the differential equation 

					

					Now,  simply can't understand  it would be reasonable to consider that equation.  mean, if we just accept it and deduce results, then we get a feeling that it should be right. But  could one motivate it  mean,  reasoning lead Schrödinger to that equation in specific

					s it possible, without knowing further quantum mechanics that follows from the equation, to motivate that the wave function of a particle should satfy that equation 've heard that th equation can't be derived. But  believe there  some reasoning behind it.

				
					These facts are taken for granted in a QM text  read. The purportedly guaranteed non-normalizability of eigenfunctions  correspond to a continuous eigenvalue spectrum  only partly justified by the author, who merely states that the non-normalizability  linked to the fact that such eigenfunctions do not tend to zero at infinity.

					Not a very satfying answer.  'm really after  an explanation based in functional analys.  believe there  a generalized result about inner products being finite for dcrete spectra but infinite for continuous spectra.

					Can anyone shed some light on th

				
					there  th text book that  giving me a hard time for a while now:

					t ss that Bloch wave functions can be written as
					
					  fine to me. t also states that the Bloch factors  may be orthonormalized on the (primitive) unit cell volume :
					.

					ever, and here starts my problem, it then concludes that therefore, the Bloch functions  fulfill
					
					
					
					
					with lattice vectors  and crystal volume .

					But  just don't get the last two lines.  mean, the integral in the second last line actually should read , shouldn't it And, if that  true and  didn't ms something important already,  can't understand  that would yield these two s ...

					'm almost sure  msed something, but  just desperately keep fail getting it, so any help would be greatly appreciated!

					EDT

					Thank you very much for your reactions! ever, it seems  failed to state my problem clear enough, so  figured it might be best to tell you  my approach so far was step by step so may be someone can see where  actually go wrong:

					Starting with
					
					 partitioned the integration domain , thus getting a sum of integrations over the unit cell volume, yielding
					
					 happens to be exactly the second line when exploiting .  then proceeded using . But th yields
					
					 dagrees with the third line in the book where the integral  over the Bloch factors  only.

					ever even assuming th  just a typo ( 'm not so sure of ...),  would be confronted with the integral  and  can't see  those two s would are from that either.

					Thank you all again for your reactions and  hope  know actually stated my problem clearly.

				
					 am a little confused! Some people are arguing that  the gapless edge state of Topological insulator  robust as long as the time reversal symmetry  not broken，while other people say that it  not stable for lack of topological order。Please help me out！

				
					
					  Schrödinger's cat: a cat, a flask of poon, and a radioactive source
					  are placed in a sealed box. f an internal monitor detects
					  radioactivity (i.e., a single atom decaying), the flask  shattered,
					  releasing the poon that kills the cat. - Wikipedia
					

					Schrödinger's cat experiment  claiming that putting the whole th "cat killer radioactive decay system" to a closed box(blocking photons) will dconnect all communication methods between me(observer) and radioactive source inside the box.

					But, n't that possible to communicate with the radioactive source through gravitational waves  mean, suppose it's an Uranium-238 atom and it decayed to Uranium-234 and radiated an alpha particle (Helium atom), so n't the decrease of mass for Uranium atom and position change for Helium atom will create gravitational waves And  think  will be able to capture th information just by detecting the gravitational waves.

					So where  the uncertainty on th experiment

				
					Look at http://www.bohmian-mechanics.net/bm_pictures_hydrogen.html. t  mentioned that in the rest states of a bound electron, the position of the electron  stationary, since the wavefunction's phase  not changing. n the Bohmian picture where the electron DOES have an exact position, it should be supposed to stay at a certain point, since it has no Bohmian trajectory.

					ever, we KNOW that the electron has a kinetic energy of ~13.6eV,  make it have a velocity of ~2E6 m/s. So n't th a contradiction in the Bohmian picture of the atom

				
					 was hoping someone could give an overview as to  the Lie groups  and  and their representations can be applied to describe particle physics

					The application of Lie groups and their representations  an enormous field, with vast implications for physics with respect to such things as unification, but   specifically made these groups of physical importance and  there study  useful.

					 have just started studying these two groups in particular, but from a mathematical perspective, 'd very much appreciate understanding some sort of physical motivation.

				
					 guess vible light  vible, because it has the right wavelength to be absorbed (or not) and emitted (or not) by many different molecules. Now vible light has a wavelength in the order of a few hundreds nanometers, while the typical size of a molecule  rather in the order of a few angstrom.

					 guess the difference between the energy levels of the molecules will have the right magnitude that corresponds to the energy carried by a single photon. But it's still slightly strange, because a classical antenna would need a length of a quarter wavelength to be most effective at absorbing or emitting energy.

					 also wonder  the effective size of the scattering cross-section of a molecule to absorb a photon of an appropriate wavelength will be. s it more in the order of the size of the molecule, or more in the order of the geometric mean between the wavelength and the size of the molecule

				
					 kind of things can go wrong if we try to do quantum mechanics on a nonseparable Hilbert space  have heard that usual mathematical manipulations that we take for granted will no longer hold.   am looking for  either a general high-level argument explaining  things would go wrong or some specific examples where it  so.

				
					'm trying to understand  Hamiltonian matrices are built for optical applications. n the excerpts below, from the book "Optically polarized atoms: understanding light-atom interaction",   don't understand :  are the  parts not diagonal f the Hamiltonian  ,  aren't all the components just diagonal   th matrix built systematically Can someone please explain

					
					  We now consider the effect of a uniform magnetic field  on the hyperfine levels of the  ground state of hydrogen. nitially, we will neglect the effect of the nuclear (proton) magnetic moment. The energy eigenstates for the Hamiltonian describing the hyperfine interaction are also eigenstates of the operators . Therefor if we write out a matrix for the hyperfine Hamiltonian  in the coupled bas , it  diagonal. ever, the Hamiltonian  for the interaction of the magnetic moment of the electron with the external magnetic field,
  
					  
  
					   diagonal in the uncoupled bas , made up of eigenstates of the operators . We can write the matrix elements of the Hamiltonian in the coupled bas by relating the uncoupled to the coupled bas. (We could also carry out the analys in the uncoupled bas, if we so chose.)
  
					  The relationship between the coupled  and uncoupled  bases (see the dcussion of the Clebsch-Gordan expansions in Chapter 3) 
  
					  
  
					  Employing the hyperfine energy shift formula (2.28) and Eq. (4.20), one finds for the matrix of the overall Hamiltonian  in the coupled bas
  
					  
  
					  where we order the states .
					

					And for Eq. (2.28) the other part 

					
					  
  
					  where . Here the constants  and  characterize the strengths of the magnetic-dipole and the electric-quadrupole interaction, respectively.   zero unless  and  are both greater than .
					

				
					A particle can be set off in a certain direction by giving them momentum.  Momentum  a vector, so the particle heads off in a specific direction.  But the wave function of the particle allows it to obtain other momentum values,  would steer the particle on a different path.  then can we "shoot" electrons and other particles in straight lines  can they maintain their momentum in the face of quantum uncertainty

				
					Stated: The atomic spectra of hydrogen and deuterium are similar ever shifted in energies. 

					So im trying to explain  it  that the emsion lines are shifted and  they are shifted.

					Since the nucleus of deuterium contains both a proton and a neutron its notably heavier than the nuclueus of hydrogen,  only contains a proton. And since the transition energy  given by following equation:
					 , where   the reduced mass of Atom . its clear that the energy varies with the atom mass.

					But i dont really know  to tackle the second part of my problem i.e. explaining  they are shifted. 

					Thank you in advance!

				
					 was going through my notes on the unitary irreducible representations of the Poincare group and the subsequent construction of one particle states and  stumbled across the following steps in the method of induced representations: (  the Hilbert space and   the subspace of one-particle states with momenta p.   just the little group of the standard momentum .   the standard Lorentz boost; ) 

					(1) Let  be a bas for  and let  be the (finite) unitary irrep of  induced by the unitary irrep . Then  acts on  by mixing the spin polarization states, 
					\
					(2) Define the bas for  by
					\
					(3) The action of Lorentz transformations on these states  then
					\
					where   known as the Wigner rotation.

					(4) Finally, we extend th action to an arbitrary state in the Hilbert space  for some coefficients  by,
					\

					These are my own notes  are largely influenced by Weinbergs construction, so they may be incorrect.  understand all of the steps except for one part of step 4; The part where  say  for some coefficients .  are these coefficients Are they the wavefunctions Do they depend continuously on , if so should the sum over  be replaced by an integral Should these coefficients be square-integrable;  where   the mass shell and  a Lorentz invariant measure s th expansion of an arbitrary state even correct 

				
					n Modern Quantum Mechanics by Sakurai, at page 46 while deriving commutator of translator operator with position operator, he uses  But for every   Therefore th limiting process  does not make sense for me.  couldn't derive commutator relation without using these. 

				
					 would like to measure whether my source emits entangled photon pairs. To that order  want to build a g-2-experiment,  measures photon coincidence counts as a function of time delay between photon detection. Unfortunately, there  no one here who can s me . Are there any books or papers that specify  components  need and   imagine that it must be much more complicated than hooking up two detectors to my source via fiber optics, right
					Also any hints at  to approach such a setup would be much appreciated. ('m a first year grad student with next to no supervion)
					Thank you! :)

				
					As far as  can check, the adiabatic theorem in quantum mechanics can be proven exactly when there  no crossing between (pseudo-)time-evolved energy levels. To be a little bit more explicit, one describes a system using the Hamiltonian  verifying  and , with ,  being the initial (final) time of the interaction switching. Then, at the time , one has

					 

					with the 's being the projectors to the eigenstates associated with the eigenvalue , that we suppose known, i.e.  can be exactly diagonaled. Then, the time evolution of the eigenstates  supposed to be given by 

					

					  fairly good because it just requires that we are able to diagonale the Hamiltonian at any time,  we can always do by Hermiticity criterion. The adiabatic theorem (see Messiah's book for instance)

					

					with the operator  verifying the Schrödinger equation

					

					can be proven exactly if  at any time (see e.g. Messiah or Kato).

					Now, the Berry phase  supposed to be non vanhingly small when we have a parametric curve winding close to a degeneracy, i.e. precely when . For more details, Berry defines the geometric phase as 

					

					with ( adapted the Berry's notation to mine)

					

					for a trajectory along the curve  in the parameter space . n particular, Berry defines the adiabatic evolution as following from the Hamiltonian , so a parametric evolution with respect to time . These are eqs.(9) and (10) in the Berry's paper.

					Later on (section 3), Berry argues that 

					
					  The energy denominators in [the equation for  given above] s that if the circuit  lies close to a point  in parameter space at  the state   involved in a degeneracy, then  and hence ,  dominated by the terms  corresponding to the other states involved.
					

					 annoys me  that the Berry phase argument uses explicitly the adiabatic theorem. So my question  desperately simple: 's the hell  going on there Can we reconcile the adiabatic theorem with the Berry phase elaboration s the Berry phase a kind of correction (in a perturbative expansion sense) of the adiabatic theorem s there some criterion of proximity to the degeneracy that must be required in order to find the Berry phase 

					REFERENCES: 

					
					Berry, M. V. Quantal Phase Factors Accompanying Adiabatic Changes. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Series A, Mathematical and Physical Sciences, 392 45–57 (1984).
					Kato, T. On the Adiabatic Theorem of Quantum Mechanics. Journal of the Physical Society of Japan, 5 435–439 (1950). 
					Messiah, A. Mécanique quantique Dunod (French reprint of the 1958 edition) (1995). 
					

				
					There's an imaginary  in the Schrödinger equation,   guess  to define the position of the particle in a space-time involving a complex function. But   the real physical significance of  in the equation

				
					'm currently consuming a course on QFT where we need to define the unitary time-evolution to get the time evolution of the wave function in the interaction picture:

					 .

					Now one can s that th operator follows a Schrödinger equation by simply taking the derivative to time:

					 .

					Where   the perturbation to our free-field Hamiltonian .

					Now  started wondering whether  shouldn't also follow a Heenberg equation since it's an operator.

					 believe it shouldn't since  gives a unitairy time-evolution   a transformation, while the Heenberg equation applies to observables.  was woundering if someone could confirm my reasoning or dprove it

				
					 have been taught that the boundary conditions are just as important as the differential equation itself when solving real, physical problems.

					 the Schrödinger equation  applied to the idealized hydrogen atom it  separable and boundary conditions are applied to the radial component.   am worried about the  boundary near the nucleus.  Near the proton the electron's kinetic energy will be relativtic and looking to the Schrödinger equation itself for  th boundary should behave seems dangerous because its kinetic energy term  only a non-relativtic approximation.

					s there any physical intuition, or any math, that  can look to that should make me comfortable with the boundary condition in th region

				
					Consider a lone photon. As its frequency increases, its energy increases. Taken to the limit, a sufficiently-high-frequency photon could be a black hole unto itself.

					But the frequency of a photon  dependent on the inertial frame of the observer. Two observers could each observe th photon to be either above or below th critical frequency. Or,  could accelerate to "catch up" to th photon, red-shifting it until it  no longer energetic enough to be a black hole.

					So couldn't  at one moment observe a particle to dappear beyond the event horizon, accelerate until the event horizon no longer exts, and hence observe  happened to the particle after crossing that threshold

					s th in-principle possible f not,  not

					EDT: to clarify,  am not asking  much energy-due-to-photon-momentum  required to create a black hole,  am asking: given that threshold energy,  does the event horizon appear to different inertial frames  observe the photon to be above/below th threshold

				
					 understand that the double slit experiment (i.e. the creation of interference pattern) holds also when the "particle"  not just a single particle but any item, experimentally proven even for a C60 molecule.

					 am wondering   the correct interpretation of the double slit experiment when the particle under test  a macroscopic object, like a space capsule with people inside.

					 think that in order to obtain the interference pattern the capsule shouldn't be hit by any photon coming from the external environment (or any other particle). So the people inside the capsule are not able to understand  slit they are going through since they can't receive any information from the outside world.

					People outside the capsule are not able either to see the capsule during h flight otherwe the wave function of the capsule will collapse to a specific position.

					 guess the experiment setup would require extremely low temperature of the objects involved (at least on their external surface) and a very controlled environment.

					s th interpretation correct 

					Are the people inside the capsule able to make some internal experiment to cause the capsule wave function to collapse (and to avoid any interference pattern when they hit the final wall) even without interacting with the external environment

					Thanks

					[Edit]
					Thanks for your answers. Actually  want to clarify my question.  am not asking  we don't usually see interference pattern on macroscopic objects.
					 am wondering 's the interpretation of the interference pattern we see (do we see it) when we setup an experiment with such macroscopic object. Obviously it  a thought experiment and it doesn't really matter if it's technically unfeasible.

					n example, considering the numbers that tom proposed, we have that _lambda  4e-38m. Now, if the slits are 10m wide and they are 1000m apart, the interference pattern should emerge for angles of about 4e-41 radiants.
					So if the wall  like 1e45m far (let's forget about cosmology) then we should see the crests of the interference pattern kilometers apart.

					So  really happens in such scenario  can think of the following options:
					1) nterference pattern emerge, passengers and external observer can't tell  slit the ship went through since the experiment itself requires no interaction between the ship and the environment
					2) nterference pattern doesn't emerge even if the ship doesn't interact with the other objects as it's too complex and its wavefunction collapses anyway.
					3) 

					We can make the experiment cosmologically more realtic. We can use a nanorobot (able to record some observations and perform little experiments, so conceptually equivalent to a human being) with a mass of 1e-18kg and make it travel at 1mm/s. f the slits are .1m apart, we should expect interference crests .1m apart after a Sun-Earth dtance.

				
					t  well accepted that quantum theory has well adapted itself to the requirements of special relativity. Quantum field theories are perfect examples of th peaceful coextence. ever  sometimes tend to feel little uneasy about some aspects. Consider an EPR pair of particles light years apart. Suppose there are 2 observers moving relative to each other with constant relative velocity. Let us consider, there are spin detection mechanm at both end for each particle. Now suppose one of the observer  at rest w.r.t. the detector for the first particle. As soon as the detection made, the wave function of the 2 particle entangled system will collapse instantaneously and the second particle must realize a definite opposite spin value. Now due to relativity of simultaneity, the second observer may claim that the collapse of the wave function for the two particle system  not simultaneous. He may even claim that the second particle  measured first. n that case a special frame of reference will be privileged, the frame at  the wave function collapsed instantaneously. Th will cause a significant strain on the core principle of special relativity.

					 am sure the above reasoning  flawed. My question  where

				
					 have a particle and a potential .

					Where   the Delta function, and  am interested in the solutions of the stationary Schroedinger equation.

					f   the solution for  and  for , must be that , because of the delta function.

					Now  read that the condition  

					My question :   do  get at th conclusion

				
					  was in school,  learned (from Democritus) that an atom was 
					similar to a solar system, with the nucleus being the sun, and the 
					electrons being the planets. Of course, there are some differences: 

					
					The "sun" n't a single entity, but a collection of protons and nuetrons. 
					Two planets can share an orbit ( might be possible in a solar 
					system too, but it doesn't happen in our solar system). 
					

					s th model still valid Here are my problems with it: 

					
					n "Surely You're Joking, Mr Feynman", Richard Feynman implies 
					that electrons are more a theoretical concept than real objects. 
					 have trouble understanding atomic bonds (ionic and covalent) in 
					th model. 
					 also have trouble understanding electron "orbit jumping" in th 
					model, as well as several other things. 
					

					s there a better model for someone learning th for the first time 

				
					To put it a little better:

					
					  s there more than one quantum system,  ends up in the classical harmonic oscillator in the classial limit
					

					'm specifically, but not only, interested in an elaboration in terms of deformation quantization.

				
					 am looking for a proof of Bloch's Theorem  does not use periodic boundary conditions. Sometimes one happens to see non-rigorous demonstrations of Bloch's Theorem without the use of periodic boundary conditions. As th matter already confused me to sufficient extent,  am interested in all the mathematical details. 

					Recall: Bloch's Theorem with the use of periodic boundary conditions:

					Consider a cell of  atoms in -direction,  with one atom at each element of .

					Take as your Hilbert space the space of square-integrable functions over such cell  and employ periodic boundary conditions.

					Let  denote the translation by  atoms in -direction,  atoms in -direction and  atoms in -driection. 

					As far as  understand, here, the assumption of periodic boundary conditions helps us in threefold way. 

					
					The spectrum of our Hamiltonian   fully dcrete and to each value  contained in the spectrum  there exts a finite-dimensional eigenspace . (Btw,   the rigorous argument for finite-dimensionality here)
					These eigenspaces  actually lie in our Hilbert space of square-integrable functions over the cell in question . 
					The Translation group  becomes a finite group.
					

					Due to the commutation relation  we know that the representation of   invariant on . Thus on , the representation of   a finite-dimensional complex representation. Remember that   abelian, and therefore all finite-dimensional complex irreducible representations are one-dimensional. Furthermore, now that in th case   finite, any finite-dimensional complex representation  completely reducible.

					Therefore  can find a bas  of   not only  diagonal in  but also in all , i.e.
					

					 then leads quickly to Bloch's Theorem, together with the periodic boundary conditions.

					Bloch's Theorem without the use of periodic boundary conditions

					 have the feeling that we are running into trouble here. Let me sketch the problem to the point that  understand so far:

					Consider as Hilbert space the space of square-integrable functions .

					Note:

					
					Our Hamiltonian  has no eigenvectors in  and thus no dcrete part of the spectrum .
					Even after extending to a rigged Hilbert space with the tempered dtributions  as extension, our generalized eigenspaces  to our generalized eigenvalues (values of our continuous spectrum ) seem all to be infinite-dimensional. (s there a formal argument to make th point)
					While the representation of the Translation group   unitary on , and finite-dimensional unitary representations are completely reducible,  don't see  the representation of  could be taken as unitary on . (ever,  lies entirely in .)
					

					So it  definitively not possible to decompose the generalized eigenspaces  along the same line as seen in the previous section.

					Note:

					
					f all  were finite-dimensional and in , then by unitarity of the representation of  on , th representation would be completely reducible. But neither   finite-dimensional nor contained in .
					

					:

					  the appropriate way to state that  can decompose my infinite-dimensional eigenspaces  in some continuous way

					 suppose that it  possible to write any generalized eigenstate to generalized eigenvalue  as some integral
					
					where the  are generalized eigenstates of  to generalized eigenvalue  and eigenstates of all Translations.

					 am interested in  to make th symmetry argument rigorous and  the right mathematical framework to employ here .
					 am naively thinking of the spectral theorem here and projection-valued measures, given the integral above,  there some connection to it

					n general  am also fine with any rigorous argument that yields Bloch's Theorem without the assumption of periodic boundary conditions, or likewe an argument that ss that Bloch's Theorem  not extendable to the case of no periodic boundary conditions.

					Edit 1:

					The last part of my post speculating about an integral representation of any  seems to be utter nonsense. ( was supposing there might be some concept of uncountable bas with then unique "uncountable sums" to represent each element...)

					The only extended notion of bas there , as far as  see,  a Schauder bas  allows us to express any element as a countable linear combination of some countable collection that we call Schauder-bas, if and only if the space in question  separable.

					Well,  guess some problem to it  that   not even a normed space, and therefore  can't even ask whether there exts a Schauder-bas to it along the same line as  would do for a Hilbert space() Yet  think in the framework of rigged Hilbert spaces  comes with some induced topology and therefore one can at least address the question of whether  (or some  subspace if it)  topologically separable. 

					ndependent of  (or some  subspace if it) being separable, there  an uncountable  Hamel-bas to the eigenspaces  but then any state can be represented as linear combination of a finite subset of that Hamel-bas. 

					So not knowing whether the  are separable, a more well-defined question one might ask  whether there exts a Hamel-bas  of  such that each   eigenvector of all translations.

					Edit 2:

					Clearly, for the extence of a Schauder-bas completeness  a necessary condition. Luckily, as   a topological vector space and thus a uniform space, we can talk about completeness of it. ever we'd be left to s that a certain  in question  complete and separable in order to use a Schauder-bas.

					ndependent of that, it's possible to ask for a Hamel-bas with the above required property. So  guess  should focus on that.

					(Seems like  need to properly learn about functional analys in order to advance by myself...)

				
					For simplicity let us consider one-dimensional quantum-mechanical systems only. Given any state  and its Wigner function , there are several properties it always satfies,

					
					it  real-valued and bounded in absolute value by  from above,
					its marginals are well-behaved probability dtributions,
					its overlap  with the Wigner function of any other state   nonnegative.
					

					Given an arbitrary function , we can reconstruct a state  it corresponds to iff all of these conditions are met using the Weyl transform. f some properties are not satfied, the resulting operator will be unphysical—non-Hermitian, unnormalized or non-positive. The question   to check the conditions prior to the calculation.

					The first two are usually fairly easy to check but the latter involves going through all states of the system. Even if we restrict ourselves to pure states, th still iterates over all rays in an infinite-dimensional linear vector space and  as such usually done finding a proof tailored to the specific case. s there a simpler (algorithmic) condition  can replace the third bullet above and implies its validity

				
					 in every textbook when deriving Dirac's equation the smallest possible matrices () are used
					 wonder  one couldn't use spin 1 matrices () and get relativtic equation for spin 1 particle

				
					 think  understood very well  operations on one qubit are done - if qubit  electron, we just apply magnetic field in direction we want to make spin precess (unitary operations on single qubit).

					 sort of understand  entanglement happens - you let 2 electrons interact and the lowest possible energy state  entanglement, so nature just puts them there. ()
					But  all of a sudden we can make unitary operations on 2 qubit hilbert space  physically lets us do so 

					Rephrasing  -   CNOT operation realized physically

				
					 should begin by saying that  am a total newbie when it comes to Quantum Mechanics. Therefore my question might sound metaphysical to people who know their stuff. So please forgive.

					  am trying to understand  the basic system of an electron in a box. Suppose  place a detector at a fixed point inside and try to detect the presence of an electron. There are two possibilities:

					(1) The detector detects an electron. The Copenhagen interpretation explains th by saying that the act of measurement forced the wave function to collapse at that point.

					(2) The detector did not detect anything. Would th "not detecting an electron" qualify as a true measurement in the Copenhagen sense  mean, if th qualified as a measurement would it change the wave function

					 led me to th confusion  the explanation in Griffiths' Quantum Mechanics. He states that the same experiment when done soon after possibility (1) gives us the same result i.e, observe the electron ( does not confuse me.) But  happens when you do the experiment soon after possibility (2) Would  still not observe the electron

					 if  extend th to the two-slit experiment and place the detector at only one slit. f  didn't observe the electron, it means that it passed through the other hole,  doesn't lead to the pattern. So again, does th make "not detecting the electron" a true observation  collapses the wave function

				
					in quantum mechanics, the rotation operator for spin one half  . And a rotation of 360 degree will give a minus to the wave function. 

					My question  that does th operator describe the spin rotation in real space
					For example, if a solid has a local rotation caused by phonons or defect, can  use th operator to describe the effect on the spin degree

				
					f you have the Hamiltonian operator written as such:

					

					then to apply the Hamiltonian operator to a wavefunction, do you apply the separate operations in order from right to left, as in:

					

					and so on

					At first  thought you applied each operation to the wavefunction separately and then multiplied all the sections together but th seems rather clunky.

					Forgive me for asking such a clueless question but  cannot find the answer anywhere!

				
					My quantum mechanics textbook (Primer of Quantum Mechanics, by Marvin Chester) says that both the momentum space and the position space are bas spaces. t also says that the momentum space  quantized while the position space  a continuum.  have two :

					
					s the fact that the momentum space and the position space are bas spaces an experimental result or something that can be derived from more basic laws
					 learn from my linear algebra course that any bas of a vector space must have the same number of elements. But the momentum space  countable and the position space  uncountable (for a particle confined in a ring shaped track).  can they both be bases of the same vector space
					

				
					Here  a quote from ntroduction to quantum mechanics by David J Griffiths:

					
					  
					  The general solution  a linear combination of separable solutions. As we're about to dcover, the time-independent Schroedinger equation (Equation 2.5) yields an infinite collection of solutions (, , ,...), each with its associated value of the separation constant (, , ,...); thus there  a different wave function for each allowed energy:
					  
					  Now (as you can easily check for yourself) the (time-dependent) Schroedinger equation (Equation 2.1) has the property that any linear combination5 of solutions  itself a solution. Once we have found the separable solutions, then, we can immediately construct a much more general solution, of the form
					  
					  
					

					 am trying to understand it in th way.

					
					  ...the time independent Schroedinger's equation 
					

					An eigenvalue equation ,

					
					  yields an infinite collection of solutions (, , , )
					

					has eigen vectors , , ,  

					
					  each with it's associated value of separation constant (, , , ); 
					

					each with it's associated eigen value , , ,  

					
					  thus there  a different wave function for allowed energy:
					  
					

					have equations as
					

					
					  Once we have found the separable solutions, then, we can
					  immediately construct a much more general solution, of the form
					  
					

					(Forgetting the any other variable dependence) We can construct a more general solution of the form 

					Th last equation doesn't make any sense to me. There  nothing in linear algebra that says that th last equation logically precedes the previous equations. Trying to understand from linear algebra,  does the last equation mean   the general solution of Schroedinger's equation a linear combination of the eigenfunctions

				
					Since a matter wave  associated with a particle in quantum mechanics, does the wave spins  mean, can we vualize the spinning of wave or  it possible that the wave spins

				
					Recently  came across th idea of Gibbs that, it  the coarse-grained entropy that always increases, whereas the fine-grained remains a constant. So classically, coarse graining refuses us some microscopic information  leads to increase in entropy (due to loss of that information).

					n quantum mechanics ever the phase space has some inherent quantation, so can th be addressed as coarse graining of phase-space in that scale  f yes, then the increase in entropy  inevitable fact of nature, since quantation of phase space inherent in nature irrespective of the measurement we perform 

					PS :  am sure coarse graining and quantation have entirely different origins, my question here to  to only address their effects rather than their causes.

				
					'm wondering if somebody could help me to finh a simple calculation. Let me first provide motivation for the question below:  would like to write a QM amplitude in the 'QFT-style', as
					
					Here  assumed that  are Hermitean,  in general does not necessary have to be true.

					OK, now the question:  would like to know  operator creates the position eigenstates in QM. Here's my attempt to find its matrix elements in the position representation:
					\begin{gather}
					\hat{\mathcal{O}} |0\rangle = |x\rangle \qquad \text{(by definition)}\\
					\langle x'| \hat{\mathcal{O}} |0\rangle = \langle x'|x\rangle = \delta(x-x')\\
					\int \operatorname{d}x''\langle x'| \hat{\mathcal{O}} |x''\rangle \langle x''|0\rangle =\delta(x-x')\\
					\end{gather}

					Here comes the dependency on Hamiltonian - we can proceed no further without specifying the particular form of , and so of . Of course, for simplicity we begin with the harmonic oscillator.

					

					Where  chose  for convenience. Hence, one gets:
					

					Can anyone help me to find  For sure,  don't expect  to be a 'nice' operator, since it does not define a properly normaled state.  expect it to be some kind of dtribution, whose kernel  would like to know.

					UPDATE 1

					Few clarifications about the statement of the question:

					
					The question  about a -d QM problem, with a single degree of freedom. n principle, it  NOT related to QFT.
					Starting from the line where  chose the particular form of Hamiltonian (QHO) and of the ground state, the definition of vacuum  , where   the usual QHO annihilation operator.
					

					UPDATE 2

					@AccidentalFourierTransform has suggested the following:
					

					Being substituted into the previous line, th clearly leads to the correct result. Now my question  whether such definition can indeed define a (nice at least in certain sense) operator.  confuses me  the factor  together with the fact that we are integrating over .

				
					Wigner treatment associates to particles the irreps of the universal covering of the Poincaré group
					 

					
					 don't we consider finite dimensional representations of th group 
					

					 understand we ask for unitarity when representing its action on states, so the representation cannot be finite dimensional. ever we do consider finite dimensional representations of the Lorentz group  and associate them to fields. 

					
					 associate the Lorentz group to fields 
					 do we look in th case for finite dimensional representations 
					 do we associate to unitary representations of the Lorentz group
					

				
					Th question:  do electron configuration microstates map to term symbols
					And the dcussion of multielectron effects here: Quantum Computing and Animal Navigation
					nspired me to try to understand quantum mechanics of multi-electron atoms better.  As it  aparrently difficult to solve anything in closed form,  found a numeric multi-electron quantum mechanics calculation package that  free for students! (Called GAMESS)  My goal  to understand the basics at least at the level of the 'molecular orbital' picture, and be able to calculate some energies.

					From the dcussion in the other question and reading wikipedia  think  understand the basic idea behind Hartree Fock and the wavefunction made from a Slater determinant.  And  was able to use the program to calculate the orbital energies and ground state energy for a   term symbol atom like Neon.  These make sense to me as each orbital filled with two electrons:
					

					My main question  regarding atoms with open shells:
					  the wavefunction represented in the orbital picture for open shell atoms  

					For example Lithium with term symbol 
					

					versus Boron with term symbol 

					

					t seems like these should be described exactly the same way in molecular orbitals: one open shell below  all the remaining shells are closed.  ever th apparently n't the case.  The Lithium atom  a "doublet" and can be described by ROHF with GAMESS, while the Boron case  apparently not just a doublet since some the degeneracy needs to be taken into account (does th 'kind of doublet' have a name besides the term symbol) although th GAMESS document says they are both 'technically ROHF' states ( http://haucke-jena.de/gamess/gam_grund_1/gvb_ref.htm ).

					Question "part 2":
					s th trying to say we need more than one slater determinant for these degenerate states

					That , something like:
					

					So th would be called a "multi configuration" state  think (MCSCF), but the quantum calculation documentation (previous link) says MCSCF n't necessary for either of these states.  So are those two "pieces" of the wavefunction some not different slater determinants

					So 'm very confused and would appreciate any help.  Please clearly explain the terminology you use in an answer, as the difference between RHF, ROHF, GVB, MCSCF, etc. seem to be a large part of my confusion here.

					
					UPDATE:
					Some example calculation results for an Oxygen atom.
					energy = -74.8002167288 Hartrees --- triplet (ROHF with MULT=3)
					energy = -74.6780126893 Hartrees --- singlet (ROHF with MULT=1)
					energy = -74.6780126893 Hartrees --- singlet (RHF), should be same as ROHF MULT=1
					energy = -74.7986255288 Hartrees ---  (GVB with setting specified by GAMESS doc for  term symbol)

					The GVB output also says:

					
					     MULLKEN ATOMC POPULATON N EACH MOLECULAR ORBTAL

					                      1          2          3          4          5

					                  2.000000   2.000000   1.333333   1.333333   1.333333
					

					 seems to me like a uniform mixing of
					

					But  can that center one be a  state Shouldn't it be a  state  Th all seems very conflicting.  Especially that trying to include the effects of the degeneracy actually raed the energy instead of lowering it.

					Here's the GAMESS input  used if someone else wants to play with it:

					
					 END
					! p**4 3-P state
					 END
					 END
					 END
					 END
					

					
					EDT: My latex  kludgy.   had trouble making things line up.  f someone could edit th so  can see the proper way to do things, that would be great.

				
					 am trying to learn about Green's functions as part of my graduate studies and have a rather basic question about them:

					n my maths textbooks and a lot of places online, the basic Greens function G for a linear differential operator L  stated as

					

					  all well and good.  am now reading Economou's text on GF in Quantum Physics where he goes to define Green's functions as solutions of inhomogenous DE of the type:

					

					Where  and L  a time independent, linear, hermitian differential operator that has eigenfunctions 

					

					Where  these  are the eigenvalues of L. Where does th z come from in the second equation and   the link between th and the first one

					Edit: see my post below for a new couple of .

				
					Wavefunction  essentially a single particle concept. t  easily extended to multiparticle system as follows- if one has say five electrons the wavefunction of th five electron state  any completely antymmetric function of five coordinates   square integrable in the five dimensional space. Given a five electron ket in fock space , its wavefunction  denoted as . But for a superconductor its effective Hamiltonian doesn't conserve the particle number. Then can one come up with any reasonable defination of a wavefunction for a single quasiparticle excitation of the superconductor over its ground state denoted by  where   superconducting groundstate composed of Cooper pairs and   Bogoliubov quasiparticle creation operator and  being electron operators and  and  being some complex numbers.

					n Kitaev chain and it's solid state realation one usually talks about Majorana fermion(Bogoliubov excitation) being localed at the two ends.  can one do that without a reasonable definition of wavefunction for superconducting states The papers usually interpret eigenvectors of  in coordinate space as representative wavefunctions. s it justified

				
					 does the Dirac equation in quantum field theory solve the exting problems in the interpretation Dirac equation (as a single-particle wave equation) in relativtic quantum mechanics

					EDT: The question was not clear. So  ask again.   the Dirac equation not meaningful as a single particle wave equation Does many-particle interpretation of Dirac equation make it meaningful f yes,  

				
					Consider a quantum system with Hilbert space  and suppose the quantum state  specified by a density operator . Since it  hermitian, it has a spectral decomposition: 

					Now take another quantum system with Hilbert space  with dimention at least equal to the first. Take any bas  and consider the state 

					A partial trace over the second system yields the first state. Th  the purification. A mixed state  always a partial trace of some pure state in a composite system.

					There are sues, ever: (1) the purification  highly non-unique, any Hilbert space of dimension equal or higher to the first will work, and we can pick any bas we want yielding dtinct pure states. (2) th  a mathematical construction. The purifying system seems to have no true meaning physically, th seems to be further implied by the non-uniqueness described in (1).

					So  purification a purely mathematical construction with no physical meaning, or it indeed has some physical meaning  f so,   the physical meaning of the purification 

				
					n Griffiths' QM, he uses two inequalities (here numbered as  and ) to prove the following general uncertainty principle:
					

					defining  and , he uses 

					
					Schwarz inequality:
					
					and with  and , he arrives at .
					the fact that for any complex number  we have
					
					here  and so   , and we find that  and , so . Replacing th into  gives the uncertainty principle.
					

					 he doesn't use 
					
					instead of  Th could give us a (correct though different) relation between the  and  too:
					

				
					t  said that Newtonian mechanics  an approximation of Quantum Mechanics.  am trying to understand th with below example. s th the right way of thinking. 

					A particle at rest  applied some force. As per Newtonian mechanics,  it will move in the direction of force and if  have to find its location after say 5 secs,  can find that. For the same particle if we apply Quantum mechanics and try to find its location after 5 secs,    am not going to get exact its location. t will tell me it has probability of being found everywhere including on moon (of course the probability will be different at different places) but the maximum probability would be where Newtonian mechanics said t would be after 5 sec. s th  Newtonian mechanics  approximation of Quantum mechanics

				
					f classical particles fall through a Galton Board they pile up in the limit of large numbers like a normal dtribution, see e.g. http://mathworld.wolfram.com/GaltonBoard.html

					

					 kind of dtribution would one see, if the particles would obey the laws of quantum mechanics (as a thought experiment)  Wouldn't interference effects lead to a different dtribution than the normal dtribution

				
					 have a simple question regarding a property used in QFT. The operator  defined by 
					
					satfies  (where the  denotes time ordering). My question :  do we carry out the product of the 's Can we say that  (Th seems plausible to me.)

					But my problem  that to s the above identity, one must deal with things like ,  n't necessarily . Does the non-commutative part of  (the part that makes it differ from ) get killed by the time-ordering 

				
					Not literally when as in the moment it occurs, but if you're given a series of particles can you differentiate between the particles  have been collapsed and those that have not

					f you have a stream of particles, say 100 particles and you measure the spin etc on an arbitrary number say 7 of these particles. Then the stream  sent to another room, the person in the room doesn't know  7 of these 100 have been collapsed. s it possible for him to detect or otherwe figure out  7 have been collapsed

				
					To my understanding, mixed states  composed of various states with their corresponding probabilities, but   the actual difference between maximally mixed states and maximally entangled states

				
					Generally, we have the picture that as the parameter (say, the depth of a trap) of a system varies, the bound state gets more and more extended and dappears eventually at some critical parameter value. The point  that, the whole process  a continuous one. 

					Th  the case for the defect mode induced by a site-defect in the 1d tight binding model.

					ever, Matt dcovered an exotic bound state  dappears dcontinuously:

					http://journals.aps.org/prl/cited-by/10.1103/PhysRevLett.52.755

					Personally, we had a similar finding:

					http://journals.aps.org/pra/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevA.87.023613

					The point  that, even at the critical parameter value, the bound state  still of a FNTE size, and then, as the parameter changes by an infinitesimal value, it  gone. 

					  the mathematical reason behind some a dcontinuous behavior t has baffled me for a long time.

					 would like to draw an analogy of th behavior with the first-order phase transition, while the more common continuous behavior with the second-order phase transition.  

				
					 apologize in advance for  might be a very naive question, and for its science-fictionesque flavor.  t's still,  think, a real physics question.

					Suppose  have a (quantum) particle, whose state  represented by some element  of some Hilbert space .  Given an observable ,  can express  as a sum of eigenstates of .   For example,  could take  to represent the particle's position --- but so far, at least, "position" --- as opposed to any other observable --- seems to play no special role.

					On the other hand, at the macro level, our brains seem to assign a very special role to position --- namely, when we're deciding whether to think of some collection of particles as an "object", one of our main criteria  ( think) whether these particles occupy nearby positions, and whether they continue to do so over time.  Moreover, we ourselves are objects by th criterion.

					One can (perhaps barely) imagine some other sort of creature that perceives a collection of particles as an object when (and only when) those particles have, say, similar momenta (regardless of their positions) and continue to do so over time --- or similar values of some linear combination of position and momentum, or similar values of some other observable  for  we don't even have a name.  Presumably these creatures would themselves be collections of particles that are -localized but not necessarily position-localized. 

					But for us humans, position seems to play th unique role.  

					Question 1.  s the unique role of position a matter of physics or of biology  n other words,  there anything in fundamental physics that rules out (or renders unlikely) the sort of -localized (but not position-localized) creatures 'm imagining  

					Question 1A.  Let me reword that.  t seems clear that (spacetime) position plays a special role in relativity,  quite plausibly rules out my -localized creatures.  So let me ask more specifically whether there  anything in quantum mechanics (as opposed to all of physics) that explains these creatures' absence.

					Question 2.  f the answer to Question 1A  yes, then  does one reconcile th with the fact that any bas of the Hilbert Space  can be transformed via an omorphm to any other bas,  seems to say, in essence, that there can be nothing special about the position bas, and hence nothing special about the position operator

					Question 3. f relativity grants a special role to position and quantum mechanics does not, does that all by itself constitute a fundamental incompatibility between relativity and quantum mechanics  And can it be viewed as a significant failure of quantum mechanics that it cannot account for th aspect of the world

					Edited to add:  'm glad for the answers 've gotten so far, but  infer from some of them that  need to be clearer about  'm asking.  The question  not just " can't there be -creatures".  nstead, it :  "f we have good reasons for thinking that -creatures are unlikely, while knowing that position-creatures like us ext,  can we reconcile th with the fact that quantum mechanics sees no essential difference between  and position  (Or am  wrong about the "no essential difference" part)

				
					s there an upper limit to the number of orbits an electron can have around say a proton

					Aren't there states that are unstable (for ) with corresponding mean/half lives and therefore uncertainty in energy.

					So  do we differentiate between 2 values of  (say ,) esp if the uncertainty associated with their energy levels gets larger to the order of the energy difference associated with the transition 

					Also  it known that we can predict the following data with only computational resources being a bottleneck

					The half lives of each state (decay rate).
					The transition rate (from  to  given ).

				
					s it logically correct to assert that the expectation of the momentum  for any bound state because it  bound to some finite region   the physical interpretation of the fact that  in an energy eigenstate   but  in some superposition state  Here  the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian, for example, in the problem of particle in a box (say).

				
					Consider two systems, each made of  particles. n both systems particles interact pairwe and the interaction  given by the same Hamiltonian for both systems. Any other constraints and/or requirements you'd like to add should be the same. Except for one -- the only difference between these systems  that the first particles are bosons and the second particles are fermions.

					'm interested in ground states of these systems. My intuition tells me that the ground state energy of bosons should always be lower than the ground state of fermions -- no matter  kind of interactions or other external properties we've chosen. But  cannot think of any reasonably general proof for that statement. 

					Maybe, someone knows  to prove that 

					Or, maybe 'm wrong and there  a counterexample

					

					Edit: f you worry about spins of those particles, then you are free to make th difference too. 'll even give you all the following degeneracies, but the interaction shoud be the same -- spin-independent.  

				
					First principles modelling of physical phenomena has been very successful in physics. The largest limitation  perhaps the fact that many QM problems are NP hard so we would need really powerful computers if we want greater accuracy. But any QM model should be, in principle, still computable to any desired level of precion.

					My question :  th correct

					My problem with a positive answer would be that some local rule cellular automaton are Turing universal,  would imply that entanglement could be simulated by a model that uses a classical local rule. Th seems wrong, doesn't it 

				
					n my current quantum mechanics, course, we have derived in full ( believe) the wave equations for the time-independent stationary states of the hydrogen atom.

					We are told that the Pauli Exclusion principle  a consequence of two electrons not being able to share the same wave equation.

					ever, in our derived equation, we did not have anything including the spin.  We defined  as , where .  We then were given well-defined  and   that satfied the partial differential equations in the Schroedinger Equation.

					Nowhere in our final  do we find anything that varies depending on a fourth degree of freedom, not to mention one that behaved as  should.

					Am  msing the point of the Pauli Exclusion Principle  s there a part of the solutions for  that  am not understanding

					EDT:
					 am referring to an  ion, where there are two electrons each with their own wave equation.  f we imagine the case where both have the same quantum numbers n,l,m, but different spin , would not their wave equations be exactly the same, and therefore not allowed

				
					According to Breuer-Petruccione, the SDE quantum trajectory evolution for heterodyne detection

					

					 equivalent to the SDE of quantum state diffusion (stochastic collapse)

					

					as can be obtained trough a phase transformation .

					My question :  deep can th correspondence been interpreted:

					
					s the correspondence only on the level of the density matrix (i.e. separate unraveling) or can individual QSD samples 'physically' be interpreted as a time- evolution under heterodyne measurement
					Does the global phase of the ensemble remain the same when time evolves
					

				
					As far as  know, all the double slit experiments that were performed uses a light source (or electron source...) that emits photons at a "perpendicular" angle as th image ss: (will call it experiment 1)

					

					Now  would happen if the emitter was inclined (theoretically) as th diagram ss n the sense of  it differs from the previous pattern obtained in experiment 1.

					

					Are there any experimental results that confirm th theoretical result

				
					For a closed system the time evolution (in the Heenberg picture) of an operator   given by 

					

					with , so that for some
					other operator  we have: 
					

					ever for an open system, the time evolution of an operator
					 given by:

					

					Where the Krauss operators  satfy .
					So that in general it seems that , since:

					

					s there some property that  ms of these  operators, 
					or  th Heenberg picture so different than that of a closed system
					For example the commutator equality 
					does not seem to hold in general.

				
					Th  a layman's question. The only thing  know about quantum physics  from casual reading and documentaries.  can imagine electrons being probabiltic waves.
					Their position  an infinite number of weighted points and only upon observing the actual position do we know  of those points was its actual position.

					 program in Haskell so  imagine the concept as laziness. Only upon actually needing the information, we get it.

					But  does observing actually mean n Haskell  can treat a lazy value as if it were already there and manipulate it as such. One way of starting the actual evaluation  by printing some value, th then causes all the values that are depended on to also evaluate, then all the ones those depended one and so on.

					 figure the universe n't that human centric and "observing" means something other than actually seeing something, but the quotes like " like to imagine the Moon being there even when 'm not looking at it" make me wonder.

				
					 start by outlining the little  know about the basics of quantum field theory.

					The simplest relativtic field theory  described by the Klein-Gordon equation of motion for a scalar field :
					
					We can decouple the degrees of freedom from each other by taking the Fourier transform:
					
					Substituting back into the Klein-Gordon equation we find that  satfies the simple harmonic equation of motion
					
					Therefore, for each value of ,  solves the equation of a harmonic oscillator vibrating at frequency
					
					Thus the general solution to the Klein-Gordon equation  a linear superposition of simple harmonic oscillators with frequency .  these harmonic oscillators are quantized we find that each has a set of dcrete positive energy levels given by
					
					for  where   interpreted as the number of particles with momentum .

					My question   about the harmonic oscillator solutions that vibrate at negative frequency
					

					 these harmonic oscillators are quantized we get a set of dcrete negative energy levels given by
					
					for  where  can now be interpreted as the number of antiparticles with momentum .

					f th  correct then the total energy of the ground state, per momentum ,  given by 
					\begin{eqnarray}
					T^p_0 &amp;=&amp; E^p_0+\bar{E}^p_0\\
					&amp;=&amp; \frac{\hbar\sqrt{\vec{p}^2+m^2}}{2} + \frac{-\hbar\sqrt{\vec{p}^2+m^2}}{2}\\
					&amp;=&amp; 0.
					\end{eqnarray}

					Thus the total ground state energy, ,  zero; there  no zero-point energy.

					Does th interpretation of the negative frequency solutions make sense

				
					 dcussing the Schroedinger equation in spherical coordinates, it  standard practice in QM handbooks to point out that the radial part of the 3-dimensional wave equation bears a strong analogy to the corresponding 1-dimensional case. Th  because the Laplace operator in spherical coordinates can be written in the form 
					
					Hence my making the substitution , the 3D radial wave function  satfies exactly the same Schroedinger equation as the wave function  in the 1D case. 

					So far so good. ever, at th stage some authors point out that th substitution  merely feasible, as long as the condition  in the limit   met. f not, then the wave function diverges at the origin, and th  unacceptable on physical grounds. [One may counter th argument, by pointing out that in the calculation of expectation values the square of the absolute value of the wave function  always multiplied by the spherical shell . The factor  neutralizes the above mentioned divergence.]

					ndeed there appears to be a slight difference between the 3D and 1D case, when one observes the elementary case of a particle in a box. n both cases, outside of the box the wave function  exponentially decreasing. nside, where the particle  "free", the solution  oscillatory. n the 1D case, the wave function can be written as  n the 3D case, the wave function  given by the zeroth order Bessel function  [Apparently the term   omitted since it  considered unphysical, see previous paragraph.]

					Now if the wave function inside the box has only one free parameter , all one can really do  determine its value by demanding continuity of the wave function on the boundary of the box. On the other hand, QM textbooks claim that one should always seek a solution in  not only the wave function itself, but also its first derivative  continuous on a boundary! 

					All in all  find the omsion of the  term on physical grounds confusing. First of all it creates a difference between the 3D and 1D case. Th seems odd to me since the corresponding wave functions satfy essentially the same Schroedinger equation. Secondly, by omitting th term one loses an adjustable parameter ,  plays an important role in meeting the full set of boundary conditions.     

				
					Let's say  have a quantum harmonic oscillator , where   the raing operator and   the lowering operator and .

					Now assume that we add some kind of shift so that we get the following Hamiltonian (up to a constant)

					

					s it possible to express the eigenstates of th shifted harmonic oscillator with respect to the old eigenstates

					t should be possible by using a coherent state  guess, because a coherent state can be seen as kind of a 'shifted' number state. Do you have any ideas/experiences on  to do th

					The background of the question  that  want do diagonalize a similar hamiltonian of two coupled systems, where the coupling  of the order of .

				
					 far can we extend the formalms on quantum mechanics (QM) to quantum field theory (QFT) n particular,

					
					  a Fock space  different from a Hilbert space  Can a general state in Fock space  be written as the superposition of number operator eigenstates f yes, are the number operator eigenstates the only bas states for the Fock space states
					Are all the postulates of quantum mechanics hold in QFT as well   the interpretation of norm of one or many particle states in QFT s there a concept of position bas or momentum bas in Fock states
					

				
					The double slit experiment  a real-life manifestation of the Huygens principle. As  well-known, th principle depends on whether the number of dimensions  ever or odd; as Evans1 puts it,

					
					  Observe, in contrast to formula , that to compute  for even  we need information on ,  on all of , and not just on .
  
					  Comparing  and  we observe that if   odd and , the data  and  at a given point  affect the solution  only on the boundary  of the cone . On the other hand, if   even the data  and  affect  within all of . n other words, a "dturbance" originating at  propagates along a sharp wavefront in odd dimensions, but in even dimensions continues to have effects even after the leading edge of the wavefront passes. Th  Huygens' principle.
					

					Thus, my question: qualitatively speaking,  does the double slit experiment look in, say,  dimensions s there any major difference as compared to the same experiment in our  world

					

					
					See page 80. Here, we are solving the wave equation  in , with  and . Moreover,   the closed ball with centre  and radius .
					

				
					Below  a copy of a answer given to th Phys.SE question asked previously: Does every material thing just const in forces 

					
					  n short, assume that we have two labs A and B, in each one there  a polarizer, and each one of the photons flies toward such a lab. Assume that in the lab A the experimenter orientates the polarizer in some direction, picked by him arbitrarily. Assume that in the lab B the experimenter orientates the polarizer by chance in the same direction. Then,  happens  that in the lab A the photon passes the polarizer, so does the photon in the lab B. But if in the lab A the photon doesn't pass, neither does the photon in the lab B. And the labs are far from one another
  
					   force acts between the two photons so as to correlate their actions f one photon behaved in a certain way, passed or not the polarizer,  does it influence the other photon to behave the same way We don't know. And take into account that by the time the two photons leave the source, the experimenters in the two places, may not have even decided in  directions to orientate the polarizers.
					

					My :  

					
					s th answer an informal description of non-locality 
					And if it ,  do we know that (any) force  involved in non-locality
					

				
					Th  something 've been wondering about. For those who don't know, Bohmian mechanics  an interpretation of quantum mechanics that  in the class of  are known as "hidden variable theories",  are theories that posit the probabiltic and unreal wave functions of quantum mechanics are not the whole story of   going on but that there  hidden information behind that scenes and not accessible to our measuring devices  provides a determintic and well-defined physical state to the particle at each point in time, allowing us to speak of events proper, as opposed to just measurements with no idea of   going on in between or even saying it doesn't ext at all or  meaningless despite our intuition not barfing at it in the way it would when presented with a truly meaningless phrase like "Colorless green ideas sleep furiously". t accomplhes th, at least in the context of simple fixed-particle non-relativtic QM with classical forces ("semiclassical mechanics"), by positing first a universal wavefunction, like in Everett's many worlds theories, and then on top of that a hidden particle position for each particle in its universe that evolves according to a "guiding equation" that results in the particle positions having a Born rule dtribution at every point in time, and  effectively adds a "tracer" to the "many worlds"   taken as describing the actual world we see and  we don't see the others. (Some people wonder about the fate of the other "worlds" in the wave function  then become so-called "empty waves", but  won't get into that here. 'm more interested in the pure structure of the theory itself, for the point of th inquiry.) t provides a rather neat account of the quantum measurement problem that both subsumes decoherence and addresses the uniqueness of outcomes: the measurement causes a local collapse through the same Everett-style decoherence process, and then the particles making up both the measured and measurer are shunted down a single branch of the universal wave function, thus explaining  we never see the rest. t has no invocation of nondeterminstic behavior at some kind of unspecifiable and ill-defined when-time (e.g. "when a measurement" ... but when  that  in the process does the nondetermintic collapse strike Or "when in consciousness" But when then  in the brain does th happen Etc.)  can plague some other interpretations. Or in terms  like, you can write a computer program to play a Universe game with the physics engine running Bohmian mechanics with no ambiguity at all as to where to place things like calls to the random number generator to collapse wavefunctions, something made not at all clear in the Copenhagen Non-nterpretation.

					The trick with th and the price to all its seeming very tantalizing advantages, ever, , of course, Bell's theorem,  requires that any such theory be explicitly and truly nonlocal - that , in a relativtic context it demands communication of information - the hidden information, in particular - across a space-like separation, i.e. faster than light, into the "elsewhere" region of the space-time diagram. And indeed it makes not an exception to that, and does indeed involve such a communication of the hidden information. And th poses a serious problem for generalization of it to relativtic contexts like fully Relativtic Quantum Field Theories (RQFTs), including the celebrated jewel Quantum ElectroDynamics (QED),  make up the best theories of nature we have that are good to up to 12-15 decimal places in some cases, truly awesome marvels of scientific understanding and human endeavor indeed.

					My question, then,  th. t  often said that when it comes to th kind of thing, you have the following choice:

					
					Relativity
					FTL
					Causality
					

					and you must "pick two, but not three". Bohmian requires us to pick FTL, so we must then choose one of the other two, and the most common one  to pick causality, and sacrifice relativity, in particular, assert there must be some kind of universal or etheric reference frame, with the caveat th violates the Lorentz transformation symmetry that  considered so fundamental to the Universe.

					ever,  'm wondering about :  if we choose instead to reject causality  if we bite the bullet and try to build a Lorentz-invariant Bohmian theory where that the hidden information does not have a preferred simultaneity, and can interact with its own past and future in an acausal manner Now some will say "but then grandfather paradox" - yet that's not specific enough for me.  happens if we try to write down the math for such a thing and solve the equations  does it predict As 've heard of the idea of "self-constency principles" ("Novikov's self constency principle") and was wondering if that could work here. After all, the information  hidden, and it doesn't let us predict anything other than regular QM would let us have access to as stated. f the four-dimensional evolution equations only permit self-constent solutions,  does that affect the theory  exactly does it fail,  might explain  it's not done Like for example does the restriction of Novikov constency end up resulting in, say, no constent solutions exting, or does it cause something else, like a dramatic deviation from the Born rule stattics that would result in the theory's predictions then coming to be at variance with regular QM and with observed reality

					Or if you have some philosophical quibble about causality, then forget about even the scientific applicability and think of it th way: just as a pure mathematical toy,  exactly happens when you try and construct a causality-violating relativtic Bohmian mechanics  would try it myself but wouldn't be sure of  a simple space-time version of the guiding equation would be, and  think you'd also need to upgrade the Schrodinger equation to some relativtic form (e.g. Dirac or Klein-Gordon equation) for the trial run.

				
					s String Theory a Field or Quantum Mechanical Theory of the String rather than a Particle 

					 should know th having studied th for a term, but we jumped into the deep end, without really covering the basics of the theory.

				
					magine that two widely separated charged particles  and  exchange a photon.

					Because they are far apart one can imagine that there  a major contribution to the photon propagator that travels at the speed of light from  at a time  to  at a time  where .

					But in that case  there also a major contribution to the photon propagator that travels backwards in time at the speed of light from  at time  to  at time 

					The forwards-in-time photon imparts momentum to particle  whereas the backwards-in-time photon imparts a reaction momentum back to particle .

					

				
					t  well known that in the quantization of certain relativtic theories such electromagnetm or relativtic string negative norm states could are when quantizing covariantly. Acting with creation and annihilation operators over the ground state one can construct the state space. Some of these have negative norm but when we impose the constraint ghosts dappear.

					For the relativtic particle  am lookng for a similar idea to construct states with negative norm, then the constraint  should eliminate them. Certainly th case  different because you dont have oscilator operators but  guess that ghost should appear too.  suspect that the eigenvectors of  could have negative norm but  haven't been able to prove it.

					 was looking for reference or books treating th but nothing was found, the only book mentioning a little bit  ntroduction to Superstrings and M-theory by Michio Kaku in page 29.

					MPORTANT REMARK

					 would like to underline the fact that my question  not about brst quantization. Do not talk me about the ghost and antighost.

					 just want to know :

					(1)if eigenvectors of  have negative norm.

					(2) states kill the constraint . n a similar way that in string theory the virasoro constraint kills ghosts and the gauss law kills ghost photon states in electromagnetm. Note that Kaku in page 29 says that th  a "ghost killing constraint" in  he calls Gupta-Bleuler quantization.

				
					Negative probabilities are naturally found in the Wigner function (both the original and its dcrete variants), the Klein paradox (where it  an artifact of using a one-particle theory) and the Klein-Gordon equation.

					s a general treatment of such quasi-probability dtributions, besides naively using 'legit' probabiltic formulas For example,  there a theory saying  measurements are allowed, so to screen negative probabilities Additionally,  there an intuition behind negative probabilities 

				
					Here  an interesting paper for the Physics SE community: 

					
					  On the role of potentials in the Aharonov-Bohm effect. Lev Vaidman. Phys. Rev. A 86 no. 4, 040101 (R) (2012). arXiv:1110.6169 [quant-ph].
					

					You should check it out because it's an amusing read, but  will summare the argument to whet your appetite, assuming you have basic familiarity with the Aharonov-Bohm (AB) effect. n the traditional AB setup, one considers an electron in a superposition of paths, taking it in two opposite directions around a solenoid treated as a classical source of the electromagnetic field. The observable relative phase acquired between the electron's paths  attributed to the influence of the magnetic vector potential on the electron,  cannot be globally gauged away - despite the absence of a physical field anywhere along the electron's path(s) - due to a topological obstruction.

					nstead, Vaidman considers the effect of the electron on the sources of the field, treating the latter as quantum particles. He ss that the relative phase between the two branches of the wavefunction can be considered as aring from the action of the physical field of the electron,   not zero at the position of the sources. ever, Vaidman uses highly contrived gedankenexperiments and completely semi-classical arguments,  begs a pair of concrete and related .

					1) Can Vaidman's first, electric AB effect gedankenexperiment be described in a fully quantum manner, by solving (at least approximately) the three-particle Schroedinger equation f not,  not

					2) s it possible to explain within th formalm the experiments of Tonomura et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 56 no. 8, pp. 792-795 (1986)), who used a superconductor to completely shield the magnetic field of the source

				
					Suppose  have a double double slit experiment. That ,  have an electron gun in the center, that shoots entangled pairs of electrons in opposite directions, one to each double slit.  tried to portray the situation in the following image:

					

					Since the electrons are entangled, determining the slit through  the electron on the right goes, fixes the slit through  the electron on the left went. From   know of quantum mechanics,  think that placing a measuring device on the slits on the right, destroys the interference pattern on both double-slits.  find th very unintuitive, even more so than the classical EPR thought experiment, because there  a directly observable effect. You can see the interference pattern dappear on the left after placing the detectors on the right.

					Am  correct Does determining the slit through  the electron on the right went destroy the interference pattern on the left

				
					The density operator for a pure state  (where   a bas) :

					

					On the other hand, the bas kets themselves are pure states, and the probability of observing   , so we should be able to express the density operator in terms of these states (using the fact that the density operator  a sum of outer products of pure states with themselves, weighted by the probability of observing that state):

					

					Clearly these are not equivalent in general (the first has nonzero off-diagonal terms). Where have  gone wrong

				
					Berry phase, coming from Schrodinger equation, has well known form in terms of closed integral

					 

					with Berry connection  and   eigenstate of Schrodinger equation  

					Suppose instead you have system described by mixed state.

					s there generalization of Berry phase for density matrix 

				
					 don't really know much about Quantum mechanics, but would like to know one simple fact.

					The state function  whose magnitude gives the probability density of the position of the particle and the magnitude of its () fourier transform gives probability density of its momentum. s there any rule that these state functions are smooth (possess infinite order derivatives everywhere) (derivatives of all orders ext)

				
					As we know, the neutrino  with flavor   a linear combination of mass eigenstates:
					
					where the propagation of the mass eigenstates  can be described by plane wave solutions:
					
					Suppose that  and . Then the phase factor can be given by
					
					ever, th result  not correct. The artilce Neutrino oscillation on Wikipedia says that
					
					 differs in a factor of .  can't figure out   wrong with my derivation above (Maybe the formula for time interval   not correct, but  am not sure). Any help  greatly appreciated.

				
					 have just started learning density matrix and quantum master equations, and  am given a problem set that asks to find the solution to the Lindblad equation with , , , , and  given in the matrix form.

					The thing ,  know  to solve a system of linear differential equations such as Schrödinger equations to find a vector solution, but not a matrix equation with a matrix solution. Can anybody give me a hint or a link to the steps, because  think  am too dumb to find any, having searched the web and the library for about half the day.

				
					 just have a trouble making a full analogy between Lorentz Algebra Representation in Quantum Field Theory (QFT) and SU(2) representation in Quantum Mechanics (QM).

					To make my point,  will write few things that  think  true for the case of QM.
					We first start by looking at the rotation matrices in Classical Mechanics, represented by matrices .

					Then, we associate unitary matrices with , , and these matrices form  group. Now, we look at the algebra of  to find fundamental commutation relationships among the generators of , namely, 
					

					Then we look for different representations of these generators characterized by different angular momentums ( defines the dimension of the vector space that generators act).

					The representation that we use, then also gives an explicit expression for our unitary matrices  by
					 

					Also,  can define vectors and tensors by th unitary matrix, .
					For instance, vector  transforms by
					

					Now,  want to similarly understand QFT's case with the Lorentz group.
					( am currently following QFT text by Srednicki). 

					 start with Lorentz matrices , and associate it with unitary matrices, .  have a similar definition of 4-vector in QFT as in QM: 
					

					 can also define the generators of , , and derive its fundamental commutation relations,
					

					Now, making complete analogy with QM,  expect to find representation of  and the representation of  by exponentiating .

					But instead, we proceed by looking for the representation of , instead of  like in QM. For instance, as for left Weyl-spinor representation,  find representation :
					

					Now,  have a generator  (  now not necessary to be Hermitian (unlike QM)),  gives  when exponentiated (rather than  (unlike QM)).

					 do not get explicit expression (unlike QM) for , so  do not know  to think of them or its generators . For instance,  get expressions that involve both  and  ((whereas in QM, since  looked for a representation of  (rather than ), quantity analogous to  and  were the same thing)).

					 do know that there  no finite unitary representation of the Lorentz algebra, so  think that must be the msing piece in my understanding.  would like to make a complete analogy with QM, could anyone please be of help 

					Thank you.

				
					Let  be a normalized wavefunction living in a -dimensional Hilbert space and depend on two real parameters  that belong to a closed surface (e.g., , ...). The Chern number of  then reads
					 where   the projector. 

					 , the projector can be written as , where the unit vector  maps the closed surface to  and  the  Pauli matrices. Now the above Chern number can be rewritten as    the winding number that counts the times of wrapping .

					My question :  about , can the Chern number still be interpreted as some kind of winding number similar to the above  case

				
					The experiment  sn below.  do  calculate the probability of observing a count in detector A, B, or C Sakurai's text for example starts out describing  to calculate the outcome of simpler chains of S-G devices but  can't find any reference that explains  to handle only slightly-more complicated situations like th.

					

				
					 am looking for a good reference to an online source or book, on the magnetic Aharonov-Bohm effect.  have read the appropriate sections from the book by Griffiths and Ballentine, and still haven't understood it properly. The reference should also contain topological arguments.  have done QM on the order of 4 chapters of Griffiths, and the first 2.5 chapters of Sakurai. 

				
					  the quantum canonical momentum operator corresponding to arbitrary canonical position. For example, in Cartesian coordinates (), the canonical momentum operator with respect to each   . For arbitrary canonical coordinates , would the corresponding canonical momentum operators just be 

				
					On pate 89 of Dirac's book, The Principles of Quantum Mechanics, he writes:

					
					  Let us treat the linear operator  according to the general theory of linear operators of section 7. We should then be able to apply it to a bra , the product  being defined, according to (3) of section 7 , by
  
					  
  
					  for all functions .
					

					Th  fine,  understand th. He then writes

					
					  Taking representatives, we get
  
					  
					

					t looks as if he's integrated both sides wrt to the eigenvalues of  and simplified it in a way  don't understand.

				
					 am trying to understand the reflectivity plot on slide 26 of Neutron optics,Soldner lecture. 

					1.s the peak from =0.0 to 0.4 due to total external reflection from the first upper surface. 

					2.There  another peak at =1.0. s it because of Bragg's interference(As given in slide 23 of Stewart's lectures.

					3. are there alternative peaks between =0.4 and 1.0

				
					Suppose  have a system say SHO in a superposition of energy eigenstates  and  given by
					.

					f  measure the energy of system there  equal probability of getting  or .

					The question then ares where does rest of the energy go or come from On one good day  measure system to be in state  while on other  measure it to be . t seems to me that it violates the energy conservation. Does th have to do with the measuring device f yes then  do we never talk about it in formulating states

				
					As part of my studies and research,  have learned to work with three different measurement formalm   define to avoid any ambiguity with the nomenclature: 

					
					General measurements,  are described by a collection of self-adjoint operators  satfying . 
					POVMs,  are described by a collection of positive semi-definite operators  satfying . 
					Projective measurements,  are described by a collection of positive semi-definite operators  satfying  and .
					

					As  am from a theoretical computer science background,  have but a limited understanding of the physical implementation of quantum measurements.  know that all three formalm are equivalent by using ancilla states and unitary evolution, ever th could be hard to reale on a physical implementation of a quantum system. My question therefore : 

					
					  s there a measurement formalm that  (in general) easier to reale across all known physical implementation of quantum states  
					

					My intuition leads me to believe that projective measurements are the simplest to implement as they are they are a special case of the other two (when no ancilla  available), but th intuition might be flawed. As mentionned in Nielsen and Chuang, projective measurements are non-destructive, but there are measurement devices that destroy the state in the process of measuring it. 

					A maybe easier question, but one to  the answer would still satfy me would be:  kind of measurement operator (i.e. formalm 1, 2 or 3) are being realed by devices that measure qubit systems.

				
					A lot of work has been done recently on electron dynamics using attosecond pump-probe techniques; for instance in th paper.  n th particular paper, the authors photoionized the neutral tetrapeptide  to the cation and observed the repopulation from the HOMO-1 to the HOMO (highest-occupied molecular orbital) of the cation in a time-resolved manner.

					Here's my question:  Since Heenberg's uncertainty principle guarantees that the natural linewidth of a energy measurement will be greater than or equal to the inverse of the state's lifetime times , i.e.

					,

					could you just measure the natural linewidth of the photons emitted by the transition between the transient state and the final state and deduce the lifetime of the transient state  Or would the broadening be too large for subfemtosecond states to accurately determine the natural linewidth  Or, would other effects such as Doppler broadening be too large to get a reasonable measurement of the natural linewidth

					Note:  'm a long way out of my field of specialty (computational chemtry) in th question, so  apologize in advance if th makes no sense soever (please tell me , though, in your answer if th  the case).  Also, obviously th would only yield an upper bound for the lifetime; my question  more along the lines of if it would yield an upper bound worth obtaining. 

				
					s it possible to formulate the Schrödinger equation (SE) in terms of a differential equation involving only the probability density instead of the wave function f not,  not

					We can take the time independent SE as an example:

					

					Any solution will yield a probability density  and the question if an equation can be found of    the solution if   a solution of the SE.

					 assume not since it would have been widely known but  have not seen the arguments  th would be impossible.  understand the wave function contains more information than the probability density (e.g. the phase of    relevant in QM drops out of ) but  do not see that as sufficient reason against the extence of such an equation.

				
					 does the dtributive law fail in quantum logic

					Recently,  learned that the dtributivity law  of logic does not always hold for physical systems, and on Wikipedia;  found the proof: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_logic

					
					  We have:  = "the particle has momentum in the interval "
  
					   = "the particle  in the interval "
  
					   = "the particle  in the interval "
  
					  (using a system of units where the reduced planks constant  1)
					

					n th case, we might observe that

					

					(where T stands for true)

					
					  n other words, the particle's momentum  between 0 and +1/6, and its
					  position  between -1 and +3.
					

					ever, the propositions  and  are both false. They assert tighter restrictions on simultaneous values of position and momentum than  allowed by the uncertainty principal. 

					So 

					Thus the dtributive law fails. 

					

					After reading th proof,  cannot see a reason  it  necessary for dtributivity to fail. For instance; if it  insted that the particle cannot have momentum in the interval , and be in , then we may "and" our first proposition with th instence (). Similarly, the same can be done for the interval .

					

					

					() simplifies to (),  reads:

					
					  The particle has momentum in the interval [0,1/6], it  within [-1,1]
					  and it  not in the interval [1,3]. 
					

					() simplifies again to ():

					
					  The particle has momentum in the interval [0,1/6], it  in [-1,1) . 
					

					()  a sentence without contradiction to empirical results. t was not necessary for dtributivity to fail in ()'s case.

					So here  ask;   it necessary that the dtributive law of logic fails in quantum logic  have  munderstood 

				
					Consider the famous problem of measuring both the position and momentum of an electron. We start with two photographs at different times, then worry about the momentum of the photon, the wavelength of the light, the aperture of the camera etc. We end up with the classical uncertainty relations; well actually a bit more: we have an idea of the signs of the errors (e.g. we know on  side the electron was hit by the photon). 

					Now suppose that we have an idea that the measurements are made by application of SOME operators (not necessarily the standard ones) on a Hilbert space. Can we deduce anything like the canonical commutation relations between position and momentum operators n other words,  the implication between commutation and order of measurement only one way (the commutation relations are constent with the measurements), or can we give a limited implication the other way

					The interest  with novel quantum systems - if there  an idea  measurement theory works, then  th any guide to the algebra of observables (As well as being of general htorical or philosophical interest in whether quantum theory might have taken another turn using different operator representations.)

				
					Flux qubits are made using micrometer sized Josephson junctions. They exploit superconducting properties to create and interfere with the magnetic flux between them.

					My question  that 've seen superconducting quantum interference devices that use JJs that are a few inches big, so  do flux qubits have to be ludicrously small Do they have to be small, or  that a question outside of physics altogether, more so for a question of mass production instead 

					The reason behind th  that 'm looking to create a pulse tube based flux qubit machine with Pb as my material for the JJs. Since the prototype SQUDs are rather big,  figured  could build them too, without expensive equipment. Considering a pulse tube refrigerator can be made with copper, PVC pipes, and reciprocating saws, 'm sure cooling wouldn't be an sue. The noe, ever... another question.  realize th  extremely ambitious, but  appreciate any help you can give me.

				
					f every time a particle's spin or momentum  measured, it gives a dcrete answer (collapse of possibility states),  can they ever prove that prior to measurement it was in fact in a super-position of states s th solely a logical extrapolation from the wave-like interference patterns seen in the slit experiment 

					Clearly  don't understand something fundamental here. 

				
					 know  to demonstrate that it  not possible to make a unitary operator so that  turns into  , but  it possible to have   would allow a kind of cloning thanks to a third particle  would be useless except to preserve unitarity   

				
					 came across a problem on quantum mechanics that has stumped me.

					Consider a single particle in a 1-D potential . The two lowest energy eigenstates are  and  with energies  .  eigenstate has lower energy and 

					 know the symmetric wavefunction  supposed to have lower energy, but  cannot come up with a good explanation to justify my answer.

					 could say that  has higher energy since it has a node unlike , but then  would be stuck trying to explain  more nodes implies higher energy.

					 feel like the solution  extremely simple, but the answer evades me. Any help with th problem will be appreciated.

					

				
					n one dimension -

					 can one prove that the Hamiltonian and the parity operator commute in the case where the potential  symmetric (an even function)

					i.e. that  for 

				
					n Section 21 of "Quantum Field theory" by Mark Srednicki, it  sn that there are two equivalent ways to get the quantum action of the shifted field , where   the original field and   the background. (See Eq. (21.27)) 
					One way  to first perform the shift at the classical level and then derive the quantum action of  by treating  as a new parameter.
					The other  to first derive the quantum action of  and then perform the background shift. 

					Similarly, the renormalization group (RG) equations of all the parameters in the shifted action  can be derived in those two ways.
					The first way  to directly derive the RG equations for .
					The second way  to first derive the RG equations for the original action, and then get the RG equations for  using the parameter relations given by the background shift.
					My question : do these two ways lead to the same RG equations

					Please let me know if 'm not clear enough.

				
					 am studying  weak and strong phases lead to CP violation.  am following CP Violation by Branco. There  some algebra that  can not follow. 

					Consider the process :   . The book says that the quantity  violates CP  
					
					where  and   are eigenvalues of CP for  and  respectively, and   the transition matrix.

					Now, the transition amplitude for the given process (to my understanding) should be given by . The quantity defined in book compares two cases, 

					
					  going to  and   going to  
					  going to  and   going to . 
					

					Please explain  can we write transition probilities like th and  does th CP violating quantity actually .

				
					 read somewhere that quantum fluctuation can give re to a big bang and thus the creation of a universe  we know today, where do these quantum fluctuations come from if space  only created after big bang

				
					Consider the following quote from Wikipedia's page on Shor's algorithm:

					
					  nitialize the regters to
  
					  
  
					  where  runs from 0 to . Th initial state  a
					  superposition of  states.
					

					 am having a hard time getting   actually . s it outer product of ket  and ket  Or  does it actually mean 

				
					s there any phase transition occur in paramagnetm to diamagnetm transitions state.  should be the order and  will  calculate the order 

				
					 read somewhere that the Klein-Gordon equation doesn't allow for conservation of probability. Can someone prove th mathematically

				
					 am trying to read Kittel for a project, and he mentions the properties on silicon and germanium so briefly, that  don't understand it at all. He talks about p states, and  don't really know  that means. 've taken quantum mechanics, but  don't understand   actually being said.  hope someone with experience in solid state could re-write th paragraph into something more digestible, here goes.

					
					  The conduction and valence bands of germanium are sn in Fig. 14, based on a combination of theoretical and experimental results. The valence band edge in both Si and Ge  at k = 0 and  derived from  and  states of the free atoms, as  clear from the tight-hinding approximation (Chapter 9 ) to the wavefunctions.
					  The  level  fourfold degenerate as in the atom; the four states correspond to  values  and . The  level  doubly degenerate, with  values .The  states are higher energy than the  states; the energy difference   a measure of the spin-orbit interaction.
					  The valence band edges are not simple. Holes near the band edge are characterized by two effective masses, light and heavy These are from the two bands formed from the  level of the atom. There  also a band formed from the  level, split off from the  level by the spin-orbit interaction.
					

					 just don't get it.  are these states  looked at germanium, it looks like the outer shell has four electrons. Apparently, two are in the S orbital, and another two in the P orbital. f  put these two in three bins, there are six choices right (1,1), (2,2), (3,3), (1,2), (1,3), (2,3). s that even relevant  still don't understand  the p states mean. Can anyone explain th, and  spin-orbit coupling comes into th

				
					'm just curious  causes radioactivity. 've been told that in the case of alpha decay, since the nucleus  quantum mechanical, there  a probability that the configuration of protons and neutrons  in such a way as to have an alpha particle outside the nucleus, and then the electric repulsion pushes it away. s th true Does quantum mechanics give a probability of th sort of thing happening  would be connected to the half life 

					Also the second part of my question:  don't we have many other kinds of decay,  alpha particles or beta only (and fsion etc. artificially) Thanks a lot in advance, if you can point to articles or books  can read on the subject it would also be a plus.

					Note: for the configuration,  mean some kind of quantum entanglement or uncertainty principle.

				
					s there a theorem that says that QFT reduces to QM in a suitable limit
					Of course, it should be, as QFT  relativitc quantum mechanics.
					But,  there a more manifest one such as Ehrenfest's theorem  dictates the transition from QM to Classical Mechanics.

					 am curious as the basic object in QM  wave function whereas the basic object in QFT  quantized operator,  looks very different, and wondering  the comparon works.

					(Of course,  am aware that QFT can calculate corrections for Coulomb potential energy,  may seem to be a transition from QFT to QM, but  want one more manifest than that.) 

				
					Shouldn't air be opaque since instead of coming into our eye, the lightwaves get caught in the electrons f oxygen does absorb light waves,  come air  not hot and you can see through it The way  understand it  when electrons take in energy in the form of light, they jump to a higher electron shell and that light  no longer light, but energy. 

				
					We all learn in grade school that electrons are negatively-charged particles that inhabit the space around the nucleus of an atom, that protons are positively-charged and are embedded within the nucleus along with neutrons,  have no charge.  have read a little about electron orbitals and some of the quantum mechanics behind  electrons only occupy certain energy levels. ever...

					 does the electromagnetic force work in maintaining the positions of the electrons Since positive and negative charges attract each other,   it that the electrons don't collide with the protons in the nucleus Are there ever instances where electrons and protons do collide, and, if so,  occurs

				
					Th question may fit better in the dcussion of " Complex variables are required by QM", but it also relates to the extent to  arguments by Hestenes are accepted in mainstream physics and may deserve its own dcussion

					t seems to me that in the paper "The zitterbewegung interpretation of Quantum Mechanics" Foundations of Physics, 20  1213-1232 Prof Hestenes argues that spin  an actual precession of something physical and that complex variables ext in Quantum Mechanics because of th.   have also heard that Geometric Algebra,   think was invented by Prof Hestenes can clearly explain  complex variables are required in QM. f these are both the case (spin  a physical phenomenon and GA explains  complex variables are used in QM) can anyone explain  QM  not taught beginning with the assumptions of Geometric Algebra

				
					Suppose we have the pair of entangled qubits: 

					

					where   one of the  Bell states.

					Suppose now that we give one qubit to Alice and the other to Bob. Alice measures her qubit so that to know the spin in the z-direction and, simultaneously, Bob measures the spin in the x-direction. n other words, they simultaneously measure their qubits using different bases.

					Alice and Bob both know that these qubits are entangled. ever  the value of spin for the first qubit (Alice's qubit) in the z-direction, the same will be the value of the spin in the z-direction for the second qubit (Bob's qubit). Similarly, the spin value in the x-direction,  Bob measures, will be the same for both qubits. Hence, we have known, simultaneously, the spin in both x- and z-directions. But th would violate Heenberg's uncertainty principle.

					 can (or not) we measure the entangled qubits, simultaneously, in both "bit" (i.e. the bas ) and "sign" (i.e. the bas ) bases

				
					The title  slightly mleading.  really want to know if the randomness and probabilities observed in quantum mechanics  really just the result of a chaotic (yet determintic) system.

					f it  not simply a chaotic system,  do we know

				
					 am just beginning to learn about the ideas of the early universe, so th  probably a beginner question.

					 understand that protons and neutrons ( are baryons,  are hadrons) are made out of quarks, and quarks are held together by gluons (at a high level). So those are all the ingredients lted in the title "quark-gluon plasma".

					But  do electrons and photons come into the picture Could you describe  th works

					n the wikipedia article Chronology of the Universe, the quark-gluon plasma cools to form hadrons. That makes sense, because hadrons are made out of quarks and gluons.

					Then it quickly glosses over a bunch of stuff, basically saying "hadrons and anti-hadrons annihilate to form leptons and anti-leptons,  annihilate... and now the universe  largely dominated by photons interacting frequently with free protons and electrons".

					 exactly  happening there Where did these anti-hadrons come from, and leptons and anti-leptons, and electrons That's the first time electrons were mentioned.

					 did it go from quark-gluon plasma to the formation of atomic nuclei, photons, and electrons From that point  can imagine the rest and there are lots of resources on  that works, but before that there  very little explanation of the reasoning from  've seen so far (just wikipedia and arxiv.org mainly).

				
					'm currently reading up on quantum computing and it seems like  have found some contradiction about  to represent qubits.

					t  often stated that a qubit  represented as  with both a and b being complex numbers.

					ever, it  stated just as often, that there  only one complex number needed, namely b, since to ignore the global phase shift means, that a becomes real while b stays complex. See for example: th and th.

					  it now  don't  get here

				
					n QM it  sometimes said that electrons are not waves but they behave like waves or that waves are a property of electrons. Perhaps it  better to speak of a wave function representing a particular quantum state. 

					But in the slit experiment it  obvious to see that electrons really are a (interfered) wave. So can you say that an electron  a wave And  that valid for other particles, like photons Or  it wrong to say an electron  a wave because it can be also a particle, and because something can't be both (a behaviour and a property)

				
					For example, would it be possible to excite a hydrogen atom so that it's the size of a tenn ball 'm thinking the electron would break free at some point, or it just gets practically harder to keep the electron at higher states as it gets more unstable.  about in theoretical sense

					  know  that the atomic radius  related to the principal quantum number . There seems to be no upper limit as to   could be (),    led me to th question.

				
					So far  learned that electrons of a Cooper pair should have opposite spin to account for Pauli's exclusion principle, because their other quantum numbers are the same. s th understanding correct

					f so,  have been reading the review Linder, J., &amp; Robinson, J. W. A. (2015). Superconducting spintronics, Nature Physics, 11(4), 307–315, also on arXiv:1510.00713.  came across  a magnetic inhomogeneity can transform single Cooper pairs into triplets by spin mixing and then by spin rotation transform the unpolared () spin triplet into spin-polared spin triplets  or . 
					1.  can such spin rotation be achieved Just an alignment of the spin pairs along the local direction of the inhomogenous field
					2. Does th not violate Pauli's exclusion principle

				
					Just a simple question.   it, that when a material becomes superconducting, and by that gets zero restivity, the electrons don't hit impurities in the material
					For the material to have zero restivity, that means that the electrons can just flow without any dturbance at all

					s it because of the Cooper pair creation n that case,  exactly

				
					Recently there have been some interesting  on standard QM and especially on uncertainty principle and  enjoyed reviewing these basic concepts. And  came to realize  have an interesting question of my own.  guess the answer should be known but  wasn't able to resolve the problem myself so  hope it's not entirely trivial.

					So,  do we know about the error of simultaneous measurement under time evolution More precely,  it always true that for 
					
					(here argument  denotes expectation in evolved state , or equivalently for operator in Heenberg picture).

					 tried to get general bounds from Schrodinger equation and decomposition into energy eigenstates, etc. but  don't see any way of proving th.  know th statement  true for a free Gaussian wave packet. n th case, we obtain equality, in fact (because the packet stays Gaussian and because it minimizes HUP).  believe th , in fact, the best we can get and for other dtributions, we would obtain strict inequality.

					So, to summarize the 

					
					  
					  s the statement true
					  f so,  does one prove it And  there an intuitive way to see it  true
					  
					

				
					'm wondering if it exts a composition law for the squeezing operation   guess so for geometric reason, since they are (generalized, and the phase  annoying of course) hyperbolic rotations of the annihilation  and creation  operators of some bosonic modes.

					 define the squeezing operator as 
					for any complex parameter .

					 would like to know the rule for  

					For instance, we know that 
					
					for the coherent / dplacement operator  with . 

					A reference for  would be sufficient. 

				
					There are two pure symmetric states  and  of  qudits. s there any known set of invariants    equal for both states iff  for a 

					There  a theorem by Hilbert saying that for a compact group acting on a linear space there  a finite number of polynomial invariants characterizing orbits. ever, (as far as  know) it does not provide and explicit construction of the invariants. 

					The problem  easy when  (Schmidt decomposition) and  (Majorana representation). Partial solutions, and solutions with changed assumptions (e.g. linear operators instead of unitary operations) are welcome as well.

				
					 am currently taking a graduate level class on lasers. The primary focus of the class  on the design and engineering aspects of lasers, e.g. resonator design. ever the first portion of the class  an overview of the quantum mechanics of laser processes in semi-classical terms: transition probabilities for a 2-level dipole atom in an external (classical) field, perturbation theory, and matrix QM.

					 have an undergraduate degree in physics, so the basics of QM are familiar to me, but it has been years since  seriously applied any of that knowledge. n addition, the professor  moving through th material very rapidly, as it  not the primary focus of the class.  can follow well enough that 'm not worried about my grade, but 'm feeling a bit cheated out of a more thorough understanding of th topic,   would really like to have. Not only  th subject matter an appropriate level of advancement over my exting knowledge, it  also the bas for something (lasers)   will likely spend a career dealing with.

					Can anybody recommend a text  covers th topic, and would be appropriate for somebody with my background  would value a clearly written description over absolute rigor, but  am by no means looking for a laypersons description of QM. For example,  am quite comfortable already with the notation and concepts in the textbook "Quantum Mechanics of atoms, molecules, solids, nuclei, and particles" By R. Eberg and R. Resnick. The ideal reference would be at a similar level of sophtication, but provide a more in-depth look at laser processes in particular.

				
					Gleason's Theorem famously asserts that (appropriately defined) measures on the lattice of a complex Hilbert space can be implemented by density operators via the trace operation, except in the case where the dimension of the Hilbert space  equal to 2.

					My question   to make of the exceptional case. More specifically, in the 2-dimensional case, does a Gleason measure  cannot be implemented by a density operator correspond to a real physical quantum state 

					To put the question yet one more way, should we take the fundamental mathematical definition of a quantum state to be a Gleason measure or a density operator, since these are not quite the same thing

				
					 am a computer scientt interested in network theory.  have come across the Bose-Einstein Condensate (BEC) because of its connections to complex networks.   know about condensation  the state changes in water; liquid-gas. Reading the wikipedia articles on the subject  difficult, not because of the maths, but the concept doesn't seem to be outlined simply. Other source share th approach going straight into the topic without a gentle introduction to set the scene for the reader. 

					 would appreciate a few paragraphs describing the problem at hand with BEC (dealing with gas particles right  kind, any kind only one kind mixed types of particles studying  exactly, their state changes),  effects can occur (the particles can form bonds between them  kind of bonds covalent ionic),  do we observe in the BEC systems (some particles form many bonds to particles containing few bonds The spatial configurations are not symmetric etc), and  degrees of freedom ext to experiment with (temperature types of particles number of particles) in these systems.

					Best,

				
					s it possible for any two events to occur at the exact same time

					As  see it, because time intervals can always be split up into smaller units (it  infinitely divible), we can always be more and more exact with measuring the time at  something happened, until we find out that the two things did not in fact occur at the same time. s th correct, or  it actually possible for two things to happen at the exact same time

				
					n the algebraic formalm, the physical system  described by its observables, viewed as self-adjoint elements in a certain *algebra and a state  a linear functional, if  understand right. 

					Can someone s a completely worked out example of constructing the Hilbert space using the GNS construction

					Starting from the knowledge of density matrices, pure and mixed states, can someone motivate the algebraic formalm with some completely worked-out example so that the idea gets clear Then one will be able to appreciate the formal mathematics better.

					 have not seen any reference doing th apart from doing things in an abstract way. t would be of great help if someone could work out examples and s   happening and  to go to the algebraic formalm of QM just with the background of density matrices.

				
					 am working on problem a professor gave me to get an idea for the research he does, and have hit a point where 'm having a difficult time seeing where  need to go from where 'm at.  would also like to go ahead and apologize for not knowing  to format correctly.

					 was given that a particle  scattered with the given Hamiltonian:
					
					Where   the Dirac delta function.  was able to find the states in momentum representation, and was supposed to Fourier transform them to get the position representation states. Doing th leads to an integral with simple poles on the real ax, and can be solved by moving the poles above or below the real ax by some constant, applying the residue theorem, and taking the constant to zero. Th leads to three different solutions, depending on if  move one pole up and one down (two possibilities), or both poles into a contour.

					While  was talking to my professor, he mentioned that the solutions only work for certain values of , and that the range of   given by  makes the arc in the contour go to zero. 'm actually having trouble seeing th, since that introduces an ambiguity in the solutions. f  shift the left pole up and the right pole down and close the contour in the upper plane, th means that x has to be positive, in order to get a decaying exponential in the integral. ever there  nothing stopping me from moving the poles in the opposite way, and closing above to obtain a different solution for .

					s there something wrong in the math, or  the way  move the poles governed by the physical situation 'm interested in ( would be no plane waves moving the left for  d.)

					 should mention that  am assuming:
					 

					Where p  the incoming momentum and   the scattered portion of the wave function.

					Working in momentum representation,  obtain:
					

					Where k  the momentum variable, and p  the fixed momentum of the incoming particle. The transform  obtain :
					

					Th  where  run into the problem with the poles.  know there shouldn't be any waves traveling to the left for . My final goal  to check my states by checking the reflection and transmsion coefficients and confirming they add up to 1.

				
					ever one  doing grid-based calculations for particles interacting via the Coulomb potential, the singularity of the Coulomb potential complicates the whole thing tremendously. Particularly for three-dimensional cartesian grids, whenever two gridpoint-triple  coincide one gets infinity and that spoils any numerics.

					 know of the following methods to avoid th unpleasant behavior (plus  add my experiences):

					
					Cutoff parameters: introduce a suitable number  and replace the Coulomb potential by . Th  very simple but it's not easy to find the "right" cutoff parameter  (meaning that the singularity  removed while the result  the same as for an exact method).
					Applying the Poson equation: the idea here  to evaluate the electrostatic potential of one particle in the given representation, then project on the other. The singularity some dappears in th process. Th approach  generic, but rather costly (at least O(gridpoints))
					Use some alternative representation for the Coulomb potential, such as  Fourier or Laplace transform, other coordinate systems, projection on other bas functions etc.  have the impression these are often some kind of workarounds where the singularity  usually hidden in an infinite sum   then truncated, or the like.
					

					'd like to do some large scale quantum many-body calculations on extensive grids, too large  to apply accurate evaluation methods such as 2. or 3., still at the same time  want correct results. s there any way to accomplh that

				
					Currently 'm trying to understand electronic band structures such as depicted below:

					band structure http://ej.iop.org/images/1367-2630/14/3/033045/Full/nj413738f1_online.jpg

					And following  were aren.

					
					 are there multiple lines in valence side and conduction side Where are the bands and gaps between them starting from the lowest energy (inner electrons) to higher energies (up to valence band and conduction band)  can  dtinguh between them in the pictures like presented above  just want to see a connection of that picture with the following:
					band structure http://www4.nau.edu/meteorite/meteorite/mages/ConductionBand.jpg 
					 do these different lines intersect each other at some points (Don't they)  does it mean
					 do we choose path connecting the points of high symmetry in 1-st Brillouine zone 's wrong with random directions Does th path cover all possible energy values of electron in crystal f so, then  come  that
					

					Thanks in advance!

				
					 sligthly confused about Dirac notation. As of now  always thought that

					

					ever, now  found out that

					

					 does th notation actually mean

				
					The Schrödinger's cat was regarded as peculiar since we seldom encounter a superposition state in macroscopic scale: 

					We more often describe an unknown cat as
					

					without superposition.

					 often heard that it  difficult to prepare and maintain a large-scale superposition state. Similar difficulty also occurs in quantum computing.

					My question , actually   the reason for the difficulty to prepare and maintain a large-scale superposition state f it  decoherence,  decoherence happens s that because of entropy

				
					Say you have energy eigenstates

					\

					\

					with 

					\

					and 

					\

					\

					 know that you can find the coefficients  and  if you have  already, but  am struggling conceptually with  th means in relation to the Heenberg uncertainty principle and problem solving for th type of thing in general. 

					 am also unsure  you find the eigenstates. Though  know mathematically  to get the eigenvalues and eigenvectors from a matrix.

				
					With regard to the theory that each time a wave function collapses the universe splits so that each possible outcome really exts - where does all the energy required to create all the new universes come from

				
					 just read a paper 'A pocket calculator determination of energy eigenvalues' by J Killingbeck
					(1979).

					Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/0305-4470/10/6/001

					 have some  about section 2.

					
					  implies the  estimate was too high and  implies too low And  it possible that  remains
					 "if the starting point  chosen at , then  can be assigned any
					finite value without dturbing the calculation at larger  values" 
					 to guess a trial energy  (especially the ground state energy)
					

					(Actually 'm interested in a later paper by Killingbeck (1982) 'Finite-difference methods for eigenvalues'(Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/0022-3700/15/6/009), in  the author applies the method in 'A pocket calculator determination of energy eigenvalues' to some potentials with highly singularity at origin)

					

					mod note: copying the text of whoplp's post here since it n't actually an answer to the question

					They convert the Schroedinger equation into a finite difference equation
					(instead of a variational approach):

					

					  a central potential

					Ansatz with solid harmonic  of degree  (e.g.  or )

					

					leads to

					

					Notation: 

					finite difference approximation

					

					

					crucial step: introduce ratio variable :

					

					convert Schroedinger equation in recursive equation to calculate :

					

					
					  the corresponding 1D Schroedinger equation :
  
					  
					

					if   chosen then  can be assigned any finite value without
					dturbing the calculation at large  values

					to find the ground states with angular momentum  start with an estimate for ,
					some non-zero  and some small .  as  increases will either become negative or pass through unity from below.

					first thing happens when guessed  was too high

					second thing indicates  was too low (because  increases with )

					you just try various values and 'sand' the solution

					example for :

					, , state=2p: 1.9759

				
					n textbooks, the ladder operators are always defined," and sn to 'rae' the state of a system, but they are never actually derived.

					Does one find them simply by trial and error Or  there a more systematic method/approach to obtain them

				
					Quantum Hall effect and anyonic particles are examples that occur in a two-dimensional system. ever, experiments for such systems can only be realized in a pseudo-2D environment, where the third spatial dimension  much smaller than the other two dimensions.  do we expect the results from such experiments to differ from a true 2D system n particular, /when does an anyon begin or cease to ext when we transit between a 2D and 3D system

				
					n classical mechanics, the orbital angular momentum of a particle  defined as . Th  zero in the rest frame of the particle where . 

					Quantum mechanically,   an operator. So putting  in  and claiming that the orbital angular momentum of a quantum particle  zero in its rest frame does not make sense. One must look at the value of  on the "wavefunction in the rest frame" of the particle. 

					 does one find the wavefunction of a particle in its rest frame

				
					 would like help proving Weinberg's claim ('ve quoted him below) that quantum fields are an unavoidable consequence of merging particle-based quantum mechanics with both Lorentz invariance and the cluster-decomposition principle. 'm hoping it can be done directly using a (time-ordered) Dyson series solution of the Schrodinger equation:

					

					The method  going to be to expand the operator  into a sum of creation and annihilation operators,  Weinberg says (below) actually involves no physics and  just a mathematical idea that applies to all operators.  Assuming you are comfortable with th,   am not, there should come a moment when inserting a delta function  unavoidable. Could someone help me with th

					To Motivate the Question:

					As a hint that th should be possible,  came across Brown's QFT book where he says that, assuming quantum field theory has been developed, the cluster-decomposition principle  just the factoring 
					 
					of probability amplitudes, where  and  are source functions by  he means  

					( don't know  he writes  and not , and  do not see  doing something like  allows for th factorization anyway).

					Something about the decomposition should naturally motivate inserting delta functions into that  as a way to ensure the  right, and should imply quantum fields, but  do not really see  playing with the  in  will lead to anything like . Nothing in the derivation of Schrodinger's equation or th Dyson series solution actually tells us whether we are working with particles or fields,   encouraging. Could someone help me with th

					Origin of the question:

					n Weinberg's essay, "  Quantum Field Theory, and  Did We Think t s", he talks about the rationale for QFT:

					
					  n the course of teaching quantum field theory,  developed a rationale for it, 
					  very briefly  that it  the only way of satfying the principles of Lorentz
					  invariance plus quantum mechanics plus one other principle.
					  Let me run through th argument very rapidly. The first point  to start
					  with Wigner’s definition of physical multi-particle states as representations
					  of the inhomogeneous Lorentz group.9 You then define annihilation and creation
					  operators  and  that act on these states.
					  There’s no physics in introducing such operators, for it  easy to see that any operator ever can be expressed as a functional of them. The extence
					  of a Hamiltonian follows from time-translation invariance, and much
					  of physics  described by the S-matrix... Th should all be familiar. The other principle that has to be added  the cluster decomposition principle,  requires that dtant experiments give uncorrelated results.10 n order to have cluster decomposition, the Hamiltonian  written not just as any functional of creation and annihilation operators, but as a power series in these operators with coefficients that (aside
					  from a single momentum-conservation delta function) are sufficiently smooth
					  functions of the momenta carried by the operators.
					

					An interesting consequence:

					s the Lagrangian formulation just a mathematical construct allowing one to actually enact the decomposition of  into creation and annihilation operators and th weird delta function, and nothing more n other words, there may be other ways to do the same thing.

					References:

					
					Weinberg, Quantum Theory of Fields, Vol. 1, Ch. 4.
					Brown, Quantum Field Theory, Ch. 6
					

				
					The magnetic system 'm studyng  composed by a strip divided in two head-to-head domains, one larger than the other: as a consequence the system  unstable.

					

					  the reason if th instability n other words,  the larger domains tends to expand  think that a strip uniformly magnetized has a lower energy. But,   the energy term minimized by the one-domain configuration with respect to the two-domains configuration

					Now,  switch on an external magnetic field, directed along the easy ax of the strip. f its amplitude  "small" the larger domains expands as before. n th case reducing the smaller domain increase the Zeeman energy term of the strip. So, again,   the energy therm minimized here

					(n all my reasonings 'm not considering the energy stored in the domain wall between the two domain:  it a big negligence)

					Update: after running some simulations the energy term that decreases in the one-domain configuration (without the external field applied)  the demagnetizing energy. But  can't figure out .

				
					s there a general algorithm to find the spectrum of , where   a homogenous polynomial (of degree ) of the annihilation operators (of  variables)

				
					 am studying Perturbation Theory from J.J. Sakurai's textbook Modern Quantum Mechanics.  am having trouble proving formulas on page 299 (5.2.5) and (5.2.6) from the previous ones [mainly (5.2.4)]. Can anyone help

					Th  a problem of working with perturbation theory when the non-perturbed state has degeneracy. To elaborate  do not get    not singular.

					More importantly  the equation below correct and if so :

					

					That  the core of my problem. f the above equation - in the framework of Sakurai's statement of the problem -  correct  can work out all the rest on my own. ever  do not get  th equation would hold true.

				
					 can  prove that   the operator of  in momentum space

				
					 know that in principle, the Fock state  not the same as a product state because if it were, the photons would be uncorrelated.   don't understand , can it be expanded in product states 

					For example, if two photons share the same mode,  the state  the same as the product   

					f they are in different modes,  the Fock state  the same as superposition of two Fock states,  (with  and  labeling the photons) 
					f yes, then  th superposition, in turn, the same as   

				
					n the Schrödinger equation, at any given time  we should jointly add another sub equation, like  where , and then try to solve the two equations simultaneously.  not  know it does not yield, but  am always baffled, who  doing the normalization of the wave function Observers, the system, the measuring process, God

				
					Quantum entanglement means that multiple particles are linked together in a way such that the measurement of one particle's quantum state determines the possible quantum states of the other particles. But my question  that if we randomly pick up any pair of particles from anywhere, will it be entangled Does it mean that all particles in the universe are entangled to each other For example-  pick up an electron on earth and an electron   1000 million light years away from the electron on earth, will both of those electrons be entangled Also does th entanglement work only with similar particles, can two different type of particles like an electron and proton be entangled (Extra question: does quantum entanglement work with only spin of a particle)

				
					 have seen in Wikipedia that different quantization methods ext (see Wiki article with name "Quantization"). Moreover, Wikipedia stated that there  more than one way to quantize a classical theory.   quantization  not unique

					f you hear lectures about quantum theory, you will learn the canonical (commutator relation) quantization and the Path integral method. You will learn that canonical method and Path integral method are equivalent. 

					Now there also exts a quantization with the Moyal  product and phase space; th method  also equivalent to the methods  have mentioned previously.

					Main question:  quantization method  completely different to the most convenient one like commutator relations  am thinking about things like the spin network state quantization that  used in Loop quantum gravity. Can spin networks be used to quantize well-understood theories like quantum chromodynamics also

					Answers would be greatly appreciated.

				
					'm studying about quantum-spin (in a syllabus about non-relativtic quantum-mechanics though), but  have some trouble understanding everything. So  would like to ask some small ,  may perhaps clear up the picture as a whole.

					So they are trying to determine the influence of a spatial rotation, to the state in the two dimensional spin-space. So they try to determine the operator  responsible for th rotation ( acts on the spin-space and thus  represented by a 2x2 matrix). 

					To do th they first try to determine    the infinitesimal unitary operator for rotation about an infinitesimal angle  and they state that such an operator can always be written as:
					 with  hermitic. So   also acting on the two dimensional spin-space and can be represented by a 2x2 matrix. So far so good.

					But now they state that  has to be constructed in such a way that  and  and  are rotation-invariant. Where  and  are states of the two dimensional spin-space and .   don't understand :

					1)   meant by rotation invariance Because if we rotate  and  by taking the action of a unitary rotation-operator  , then these inproducts are necessarily conserved, ever  may be. So  guess they mean something else.

					2)  must  be constructed so that th  true Perhaps th will be clear if  understand 1) though.

					Furthermore they state that th can only be the case if:
					
					With  and  hermitical vector operators. 
					So  wonder:

					3)   th only the case if th  true
					4) Some further they also mention that  but  don't really see here too  th has to be the case.

					 hope that someone can answer one (or more) of these ,  think it will help a lot in understanding the other claims of the chapter about quantum-spin. 

				
					'm reading R. Haag's famous book "Local Quantum Physics: Fields, Particles, Algebras", 2nd edition, and 'm very puzzled by the way he treats the Heenberg picture in the Haag-Ruelle scattering theory. t begins in section ".3 Physical nterpretation in Terms of Particles", where, on page 76, he clearly states "Our description  in the Heenberg picture. So  describes the state "sub specie aeternitat"; we may assign to it, as in (.3.29), a wave function in space-time obeying the Klein-Gordon equation." 

					Then, on page 77, he says: "Suppose the state vectors ,  describe states  at some particular time  are localized in separated space regions , ." From here on the whole construction begins.

					 would very much appreciate it if an expert in Haag-Ruelle scattering or whoever knows the answer, would answer my question as to  a state vector in the Heenberg picture like  and  above depends on time, when it's common knowledge that there  no time dependence assigned to the state vectors in the the Heenberg picture

					EDT 1: Up until recently  didn't even know  a scattering process might be described in the Heenberg picture of QM, since once the initial state  prepared at  , th state will remain unchanged for all time and it will be the same for , and hence there could be no scattering (let alone particle production, 3-body scattering, rearangement collions, etc.).  to solve th problem
					Then  have dcovered one of the most lucid presentations in the paper of H. Ekstein, "Scattering in field theory", http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF02745471

					The basic idea  the following: one prepares a state of the system at  by measuring a complete set of compatible observables represented by operators in the Heenberg picture (i.e., time dependent), say , etc. Obviously, th prepared state  a common eigenvector of these operators, say  corresponding to the eigenvalues (obtained in measurement) ,.... , i.e.,  , etc.

					Then, one lets the system evolve from  to . Obviously, the state vector of the system remains unchanged, namely  for any time , with , since we are in the Heenberg picture, but the operators representing dynamical observables do change in time according to the Heenberg equation of motion.

					At time , one measures again the system choosing a complete set of compatible observables, say ,.... As a result of th measurement, the state of the system changes, at time , from  to , where   a common eigenvector of the operators ,..., corresponding to the eigenvalues ... obtained in the measurement (at time ), i.e. , etc.

					The quantity of interest  the transition amplitude from the Heenberg state  to the Heenberg state , and th  given by the S-matrix element .

					To summarize: the key to understanding scattering in either the Schrodinger or Heenberg picture  to realize that it implies 2 experimental operations, namely preparation at  and measurement at .

					A logical approach to solving a scattering problem in the Heenberg picture (as presented by Ekstein)  the following:

					
					H0) For any given observable solve the Heenberg equation of motion to find its dependence on time, i.e. the operator . 
					H1) For any Heenberg operator (representing an observable)  find the asymptotic values  and 
					H2) Solve the eigenvalue problem for the asymptotic operators  and . The eigenvectors are the corresponding asymptotic scattering states.
					H3) Select a complete system of compatible observables (CSCO) that corresponds to state preparation at , denoted generically by . Select a CSCO that corresponds to measurement at , denoted generically by .
					H4) Calculate matrix elements between eigenvectors determined in step H2), namely , where   an eigenvector of , and   an eigenvector of .
					

					Regarding the Haag-Ruelle scattering, things are very confusing. The main argument  the same in all the books available. nstead of following the very logical steps H1)-H4) presented above, one starts by constructing a vector depending on a parameter  and ss that th vector has limits when  becomes infinite.  must say that th type of reasoning  remincent of the way one treats scattering in the Schrodinger picture (SP). n the SP, one starts with an arbitrary state vector    time dependent according to the SP and then must s that  has asymptotes when (the real time)  becomes infinite.

					 would be very grateful if you could help me with some answers to these :

					
					1)   the relation between the parameter  of H-R scattering and the real time, since when  becomes infinite they claim to have obtained the asymptotic scattering states
					2)   the physical interpretation of the vectors  in H-R scattering Are they obtained as a result of a measurement Are they in the Heenberg picture or in the Schrodinger picture
					3) s there a CSCO such that the H-R asymptotic scattering states are the eigenvectors of th CSCO f yes,  th CSCO the asymptotic limit of a finite time Heenberg CSCO, as described in steps H1)-H4)
					4) Can one obtain asymptotic scattering states for an ARBTRARY CSCO using the H-R method Th should be the case since one can prepare the initial state as one wants at , and then can choose to measure  observable one wants at , and hence the CSCOs corresponding to preparation and measurement must be arbitrary.
					

					EDT 2: @Pedro Ribeiro Your objections to Ekstein's construction are perhaps unfounded:

					
					 chose a dcrete spectrum for CSCOs in my presentation from EDT 1 only to convey the general idea with minimum notation. n case of a continuous spectrum one can use spectral projection operators as per von Neumann's QM. 
					A Heenberg operator  acts in the full Hilbert space, i.e. in the same Hilbert space on  the total Hamiltonian  acts. The Haag theorem has to do with the fact that the free Hamiltonian  and the full Hamiltonian  act on 2 different Hilbert spaces. There  no connection between  and  or its associated Hilbert space for any time , finite or infinite. Hence, Haag's theorem has no bearing on  and hence does not forbid the extence of th limit. Examples: f  commutes with , then   constant in time and the limit surely exts (see, e.g., the momentum operator). As a matter of fact, the whole LSZ idea  based on such limits! 
					

					t's only one way a state can depend on time  in the Heenberg picture. That time  has to be a time at  some Heenberg operator, say ,  measured on the system, and as an effect the state becomes an eigenvector  of that operator. Otherwe, state vectors in the Heenberg picture do not evolve dynamically in time! One can look at my post. 

					From your presentation  still not very clear if the parameter   the time at  one chooses to measure a CSCO on the system and obtains an eigenvector() . For that one has to construct such a Heenberg CSCO and s that   its eigenvector (corresponding to some eigenvalue) at time . Can one s that 

					n the meantime 've dcovered some lecture notes by Haag publhed in Lectures in theoretical physics, Volume , edited by Brittin and Downs, nterscience Publhers. Starting on page 343 Haag dcusses h theory and in h own words says very clearly that the  states are manifestly in the Schrodinger picture, and   regular time. Only the asymptotic limits of  Haag considers to represent scattering states in the Heenberg picture. But even that cannot work since  has 2 limits, , and hence one needs 2 different Heenberg pictures, one that coincides with the Schrodinger picture at , and a 2nd one,  coincides with the Schrodinger picture at . So, he doesn't stay all the time in the Heenberg picture, but uses most of the time the Schrodinger picture, and in the end, apparently, 2 different Heenberg pictures. ever, it's well known that the Schrodinger picture does not ext in relativtic qft due to vacuum polarization effects!!!   left of Haag-Ruelle theory, then 

				
					According to press releases, researchers have reversed time in a quantum computer and violated the second law of thermodynamics.  does that mean for physics Will it allow time travel 

					Further information:

					
					"Arrow of time and its reversal on the BM quantum computer" (Scientific Reports, 2019-03-13)
					"Physicts reverse time using quantum computer" (Phys.org, 2019-03-13)
					

				
					"Einselection" and "tridecompositional uniqueness theorem" seem to resolve the preferred bas problem. But the preme  that there are three parts in dcussion.(system, apparatus, environment)
					ever, it seems that in many situations we don't have the role of apparatus, and thus there are just system and environment. For instance, we usually say that the system  monitored by its environment and thus in a state with determinate classical physical value. 
					n these situations, in  there are just two parts(system and environment) and the Schmidt form of the total system  not unique, can we say  that the system  measured(decohered) by the environment 

				
					Born's stattical interpretation of the wave function says that   the probability density of finding the particle at point  at time , then

					

					n other words, the particle must be somewhere in space at a certain time . s th equivalent to saying that the particle must be somewhere in time at a certain position 

					My Thoughts:   can't write,

					

					ever  look for the position of the particle,  stops obeying the Schrödinger equation and dcontinuously collapses to a spike around some position . f  was able to focus my microscope at say  and look for the particle across all of time (in th case, time  the measurement at not position so setting my microscope at  doesn't dturb anything), then  would collapse to a spike around some value of  and th method of normalizing the wave function would be appropriate. ever, humans can only sample at instants in time and look over all space (equation ). We can't sample at an instant in position and look over all time (equation ). Scientts can't search for the particle in time. Therefore   not appropriate. ever, even though we can't do th as humans (search through time at will instead of staying anchored to the present),  it wrong to say that 'nature' can't accomplh  Or do we have laws like the 2nd Law of Thermodynamics that say nature  prohibited from doing so s th an example that ss  space and time are not on equal footing  

				
					n some quantum text books [1], the tunneling transmsion formula depends only on the density of states of 2 regions (DOS) involved in tunneling. (, where C  constant). ever, in Landauer transmsion formula (without tunneling) the transmsion depends on both DOS and velocity of carriers (). So  am wondering if velocity  important too f yes,  velocity in  region!

					[1] For example, see "ntroduction to Many-body quantum theory in condensed matter physics", Bruus et al.

					

				
					 am currently struggling to understand my basic introductory course on quantum stattical mechanics and  have done a basic course on single particle quantum mechanics.

					 was wondering whether anyone knows of any good resources (online/books) that  could read to help my understanding of th subject.

					 would like to read about the following topics : quantum microcanonical ensemble, quantum canonical ensemble, quantum grand canonical ensemble, quantum harmonic oscillators, ideal quantum gases, spin and stattics and many particle states.

				
					 think in quantum mechanics we assign to each system a specific Hilbert space i.e. if systems are different then their Hilbert spaces are different.
					s th true f not 
					For differernt system  mean their hamiltonians are different.

				
					n th blog post, Lubos Motl claims that any 

					
					  commutator may be sn to reduce to the classical Poson brackets:
					  
					

					where  and  are the Hermitian operators corresponding to the classical observables  and .    th done

					Edit: As ACuriousMind points out, the proof  trivial if you start with a classical Hamiltonian and then quantize it via a reasonable quantization procedure.  But   have in mind  starting with a quantum Hamiltonian (and the canonical commutation relation ), then taking some limit  and sing that the resultant emergent classical theory has Poson brackets that agree with the quantum commutators.  Under these assumptions, you can't use any facts about your quantization procedure, because you never quantize a classical Hamiltonian at all.

				
					Are non-perturbative effects (solitons) classical or quantum effects (corrections)  (examples )

					My confusion stems from the fact that, for instance, an instanton  a classical solution of the equations of motion.   it said to be a quantum correction then At  point does  enter the game (the problem, at least for me, stems from taking always ).

				
					As per Wikipedia:

					
					  Quantum entanglement  a physical phenomenon that occurs when pairs or groups of particles are generated or interact in ways such that the quantum state of each particle cannot be described independently.
					

					Also if we consider a bipartite mixed state:

					
					  we say that a mixed state  separable if it can be written as:
					  
					

					So if we consider a mixed state:
					

					As per the definition of mixed entangled quantum state (stated above) we can say that given state  not entangled, but n't the measurement (in standard bas) on 1st particle will determine the outcome of measurement (in standard bas) of 2nd particle f yes, doesn't it mean that given mixed state  entangled

					 am new to quantum mechanics, so it might be a silly question but it will be great if someone can explain it to me.

				
					My understanding  that in a double-slit experiment, quantum interference dappears if -path information  available.   available defined Consider the following experiment:

					SPDC  used to create an entangled pair of photons. The signal photon goes through a double-slit with a detector behind it. The idler photon hits the wall of the laboratory. s -path information available After all, theoretically the information carried by the idler could be reconstructed from careful measurement of the wall's properties. n such a case  interference observed  "available" must -path information be

				
					Some hydrogen atom exts in some excited quantum state, and after some time  it's de-excited, emitting a photon carrying the energy difference. 

					t  claimed that th photon will carry some uncertainty with respect to its energy (and therefore, continuous energy spectrum), attributed to the uncertainty in the difference between the two hydrogen states due to the uncertainty principle.

					 true  th And  does th square with the fact that the energy values of a hydrogen orbitals are eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian, , in principle, are completely dcrete numbers  

				
					'm sure the answer  yes, but   th sn Normally for a single spin-1/2 you have a time reversal operator:  where   the second Pauli matrix and   the conjugation operator.   th generalized to two spins

					 am thinking of whether or not interactions like exchange () or the hyperfine interaction (contact Fermi: ) break time reversal symmetry.

				
					 think that games can also be used to teach things to young people or childs, different than for example a book and could be more "direct" than teaching them all the math background,  would like to hear about different concepts and way to teach them inside a game, the game could be a 3D game, or a puzzle game, or anything that you consider can be used as a tool for teach a specific quantum-physics concept.

					And also would like to hear about games that have used for th specific purpose.

					For example

					 

					as a child  was doing paintings of particles and waves but didn't get to quantum concepts  think we are msing something important in childs minds... magine, if we as a society make th happen as simples as possible for childs.

					

					n my child mind  never reconciled one or the other,  always need to choose one or the other, but never liked because  left the other out (could not draw bot at same time)... later  finally learned to paint all yellow and good-bye particle-wave conflict...  now thinking was sad, because  was in the border of one of the most interesting things to dcover as a simple child! and nobody cared to explain me   was in conflict (not that teachers care about feelings of boys doing homework assigments or paintings, because childrens do homework not thinking and not even caring about particle-waves!!!).

					t would be nice if we can help childs-minds reconcile things :).

					

					 just found http://github.com/MTGameLab/OpenRelativity and sure the video http://youtube.com/watchv=qol-zP9W5J4 or the PDF http://fdg2013.org/program/festival/openrelativity.pdf but th  relativity, not quantum things.

				
					For simple potentials like square wells and harmonic oscillators, one can explicitly calculate the product  for stationary states.   you do th, it turns out that higher energy levels have higher values of 

					.  

					s th true for all time-independent potentials

					Certainly, it  possible to find two states  and  with  and also .  For example, choose a quadratic potential, let  be the first state and let  be a Gaussian coherent state (thus with minimum uncertainty) and fairly high energy.  So 'm asking here just about the stationary states.

					As Ron pointed out in the comments, th question  most interesting if we consider potentials with only a single local minimum, and increasing potential to the right of it and decreasing to the left.

				
					Th brand new publhed result (nature):

					
					  Experimental non-classicality of an indivible quantum system by
					  Radek Lapkiewicz,    Peizhe Li,  Chrtoph Schaeff,  Nathan K. Langford,     Sven Ramelow,   Marcin Wieśniak     &amp; Anton Zeilinger
					

					(see here, for a more popular article about it see here; also for a pre-print see the ArXiv here)

					seems to support the Copenhagen interpretation.

					My question Does th definitely rule out the many-worlds interpretation - or are there still loopholes  could a many-worlds interpretation of th experiment possibly look like (if possible)

					Thank you

					EDT
					Because  obviously created some confusion,   came to that question: at the end of the NewScientt-article it says:

					
					  Niels Bohr, a giant of quantum
					  physics, was a great proponent of the
					  idea that the nature of quantum
					  reality depends on  we choose to
					  measure, a notion that came to be
					  called the Copenhagen interpretation.
					  "Th experiment lends more support to
					  the Copenhagen interpretation," says
					  Zeilinger.
					

				
					 cannot seem to find any peer-reviewed (or other) reference to an integer-spin Stern-Gerlach experiment. t shouldn't be too hard to do: just find you friendly neighbourhood Deuterium ion and shoot it through a Stern-Gerlach magnet.

					Can one deve a photonic Stern-Gerlach experiment, i.e. spatial seperation of polarization states One should also see only two states in th case, because the spin-0 photon state  "reserved" for EM-interactions (th might be too simple a statement, but th    understand it currently).

					EDT it seems some of you are munderstanding the question:  am inquiring about a Stern-Gerlach-like experiment, where spin states have been split, and by extension the perpendicular nature of non-commuting measurements. So only the concept of the S-G experiment as extensively described in introductory QM textbooks such as Sakurai.

				
					 are the main differences between a quantum and classical system  does one can dtinguh them

				
					t  written in my quantum physics book that the K shell contains only 2 electrons due to the Pauli principle.

					 know that if , then the Hilbert space associated to the spin  of dimension .  also know that Pauli principle says that if we have a vector   represents the state of N electrons, then  must be antymmetric by transposition. But  can we conclude please 

				
					For the Stern-Gerlach experiment done in 1922:

					
					 were silver atoms used
					Silver atoms contain many electrons in different shells (with different angular momemtum quantum numbers.  are those not affected by the magnetic field like the  electron
					

				
					'm wondering on  principles Noether's theorem foots. More precely:

					The action  a functional on the fields only.  do we consider then variations of the space time too n principle careful considerations, ever, seem to untangle them as special field variations. So 's going on here truly

				
					Let us consider the following completely positive map , where   any arbitrary operator (and can have rank ). The above map  a completely positive Neumark's dilation theorem th can be extended to a projective measurement. Consider  (and assume ), and choose suitable positive semidefinite operators 's such that  (identity matrix). By Naimark, we shall get a projective measurement given by a projection operator , where   the auxiliary space of minimal dimension for such extension. The relation  given (with respect to a fixed auxiliary state  as: 
					\
					(The above formula  taken from 
					Quantum Theory: Concepts and Methods by Asher Peres)

					's are not unique. They depend on the 's we have chosen and also on the auxiliary . My question  the following:  will be the extension  (of ) should be so that 
					\
					  the partial trace with respect to the second (auxiliary) system. (t will be nice if , but  guess it  too much to ask). My initial guess was . But th does not seem to be true from a few  examples. Please tell me, whether  am making any mtake as well.

					UPDATE/OBSERVATON: f we put  (the identity matrix) then the second equation should give us .

				
					The plain old double slit experiment dplays interference when we don't measure  slit the photon passed through, and no interference when it  measured. Let's turn our attention to the case with no detectors at the slits. f instead of a back screen, we replace that with a focusing lens with a screen further back such that the lens focuses the optical image of the slits sharply on the screen further back, then just by looking at  spot the photon ends up in, we can state with absolute certainty  slit the photon passed through. 

					Afshar introduced detector wires where the interference troughs should have been to detect any photon hitting those wires, but allowing photons to pass through unimpeded in between the narrow wires. The wires have some thickness, and so, a small fraction of the photon still hit them anyway, but the important point  th fraction  pretty low, and constent with an interference pattern. Th  an example of   known in the literature as a nondestructive measurement. 

					Anyway, th interference pattern seems to suggest the photon went through both slits. The catch , at the screen further back, we still detect two sharp spots. The small fraction of photon intercepted by the wires blurs the sharpness a little, but it's still mostly sharp. Now, it appears we also know  slit the photon passed through. 

					But would you say the presence of the wires causes us to lose information about  slit the photon passed through despite the fact that we still see two sharp spots at the back, and even after knowing  of the two spots it ended up in, we still have to say it went through both slits despite the fact only a small fraction of the photons get intercepted 

					Can we make any definite counterfactual statements about  slit the photon passed through even after knowing  spot it ended up in Or are such  meaningless

				
					Physically, quantum entanglement  ranged from full long-range entanglement (Bose-Einstein condensate), described by a bas of states that look like th:

					

					to full-decoherence (a Maxwell-Boltzmann ideal gas)  a bas of states that look like th:

					

					And in the middle of th range we have 2-particle entanglement terms, 3-particle entanglement, etc.

					So it seems natural to arrange the wavefunction as a series looking like:

					

					BEGN EDT  feel that i need to put in a bit more clear footing the mathematics behind th separation. Let's take an arbitrary state vector , we might write it like th:

					

					That , we write the state vector as a vector that  completely separable and a remainder that  not. Th decomposition  unique. Proof: take another decomposition with , take the difference between both decompositions and verify that both remainders are completely separable,   against the definition

					The idea  that one should be able to further th decomposition of the remainder state vector, for instance lets take a vector with zero completely separable part (that , we are on the equivalence class of our remainder above) and attempt to write it like:

					

					Analogously, one can prove that the  are unique and depend only on the  vector. And we don't need to do any symmetrization operation to get th result, so th  an universal decomposition of the state vector (for bosons and fermions)

					(note: i'm aware that th leaves out a lot of products with mixed entanglement, i.e: some single-particle states multiplied by two-particle entangled states, but since they don't add anything to th particular argument i choosed to leave them aside)

					END EDT

					BEGN 2ND EDT

					separability of states  a property that  invariant under unitary transformations, so a separable state  not equivalent to a separable one in any bas you choose.

					've investigated a bit more and the problem in general of knowing if a state  separable or not  known as QSP (quantum separability problem). For a definition please look at th paper

					END 2ND EDT

					Question:
					Where can i read more about th sort of expansion and do you know if there  a computational framework to estimate the relative magnitudes of each term (for instance, i would expect that for Bose-Einstein condensates you need to keep all the terms of the expansion, while for relatively high-temperature solids you would be able to get away with 3 or 4 terms)

				
					For a system has both continuous and dcrete spectrum,  it possible that a physical states  something like:

					

					 am asking th because of some comments under my answer to th Phys.SE question:   a bound state defined in quantum mechanics

				
					So 've done a two courses in undergrad quantum mechanics, the first began with wave mechanics and then went on to bras and kets, the second course went more into detail regarding bras, kets, hilbert spaces and so on (they retouched on wave mechanics towards the end). But near the end of the second course, they also went into density operators/matrices.

					They were presented as another layer of abstraction on top of the more fundamental hilbert space, a convenient tool when dealing with classical stattic ensembles of pure states.

					ever, reading the textbook and other sources, 've seen it described as more fundamental than pure states, a natural description of subsystems of larger entangled systems, and having the very suggestive and appealing property that there  a one-to-one correspondence between states and operators, unlike in the hilbert space formalm where the correspondence  only up to a phase factor.

					So,  there a description of quantum mechanics  takes density operators as the foundational objects, in the same way that the bra-ket formalm begins with rays of a complex space f so,  does it look like,  n't QM taught in terms of density operators, and where can  find resources to study it Also,  have generally heard it  more awkward to work with than bras and kets,   it

					Finally, if we are representing states by operators, and treating pure states as special cases of density operators,  are they operations on Or  th just another case of representing abstract mathematical objects as operators for convenience, and there  no meaning to asking  they operate on

				
					 have been studying decoherence in quantum mechanics (not in qft, and don't know  it  described there) and renormalization in QFT and stattical field theory,  found at first a similarity between the two procedures: on one side decoherence tells us to trace over the degrees of freedom we don't monitor, in some way intrinsically unknown to recover a classical picture picture from quantum mechanics, on the other side by renormalizing we also integrate over "our ignorance" but th time, the U.V. physics or high energy modes to get the infra-red physics we observe. Beyond the technical similarity (taking a trace, for dcrete Kadanoff-Wilson transformations) it feels that in both cases we are forced to do these procedures because we start from a wrong picture where we separate the free object (purely quantum in the first case, with bare parameters in the second one) and then calculate the effects of the interactions, that are responsible from  we, observers, see, classical and infra-red physics. Th where it comes to me that some interested links between the two concepts may ext or be pointed out (and also wonder  decoherence becomes in QFT).

					 still see one huge asymmetry between the two, decoherence  dynamical, it has a typical time of decay, where renormalization  static.

					 hope  could explain my interrogation clearly, and some interesting comments will come.

				
					n comments to a Phys.SE question, it has been written: 

					
					  'Tunneling'  perfectly real, even in classical physics. [...] For sufficiently large temperatures th can put the system above a hump in its potential energy.
					

					and 

					
					  the only difference between the classical case and the quantum mechanical one  that classical physics  a random walk in real time, while QM  a random walk in imaginary time.
					

					 understand that in a system of particles with finite temperature some particles can overcome a potential barrier. That's   interpret the first statement.   don't understand the business of "random walk in imaginary time".   Can someone explain

					Update  

					  was originally looking for was 1.) classical system that can transport mass through a forbidden region and 2.) explanation of "random walk in imaginary time".  So far,  don't see anything for question 1.), but  think 'll grok 2.) if  invest some time and energy.

				
					Edward Nelson's book "Quantum Fluctuations" (Princeton UP, 1985) gives an alternative way to introduce trajectories, quite different to the trajectories of de Broglie-Bohm type approaches. 've read the book in the past and university libraries generally have copies, but 've been unable to find a good open web reference

					Researching th Question,  came across one of the best graphical presentations 've seen of  a 2-slit interference pattern can be generated by particles, http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~lafferty/QF/two-slit.html (in Java), with, as explanation, page images and a PDF of chapter 3 of Nelson's book.

					 also found plenty of publhed work. WebOfScience returns 21 review articles that cite Nelson's book. "Research on hidden variable theories: A review of recent progresses", Genovese M, PHYSCS REPORTS 413(6) 319-396, JUL 2005, sent me to  at first glance looks an interesting review article "NON-LOCALTY AND LOCALTY N THE STOCHASTC NTERPRETATON OF QUANTUM MECHANCS", D. BOHM and B.J. HLEY, PHYSCS REPORTS 172(3) 93—122 (1989).

					EDT (modified): Does anyone know of other open access web resources EDT (new):f someone has a favorite subscription-only review article, that would be nice to know of as well, but my perception  that Nelson's approach  particularly unknown outside of academia; if someone  asking  that suggest that thinking about Nelson's approach might widen their horizons,  want an easy place to tell them to look. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy seems not to have a dcussion of Nelson approaches, for example.

					Finally,  make th request because although it's relatively little known  consider Nelson's approach something that anyone thinking about QM should know about, so 'd like something to be able to point out to people.  consider it significant partly because it demonstrates that de Broglie-Bohm approaches are not a unique way to introduce hidden variables. The way in  stochasticity  introduced  conceptually different in that the trajectories are stochastic instead of the initial conditions,  puts QM in a significantly different light than de Broglie-Bohm approaches.

				
					Since orbital angular momentum commutes with the parity operator and since both are hermitian it  possible to build a common bas. These are the spherical harmonics, whose parity  known. 

					Now, we also know that since the spin operator commutes with the parity operator we can build common eigenkets, but  have never been told   the parity of a spin state.

					Moreover, when calculating the parity of, for example, a particle  always multiply the contribution of the orbital angular momentum by the intrinsic parity of the particle, and the spin part  never mentioned.

					 guess that the spin contribution  in that intrinsic parity. So i would like someone to tell me about the parity of the spin states and  they are related to the intrinsic parity of particles(if in fact my guess  right)

				
					n h 1984 paper,
					Michael Berry proved that the Aharonov-Bohm effect  the same as a geometric phase. He did th by transferring a box containing charged particles around a solenoid. ever, he mentions between equations 33 and 34 that the box need not be transferred adiabatically.  

					  th not needed  

				
					
					  Possible Duplicate:
					  Learn algebra and interpretation of QM  
					



					'm a physics student it's my last year and  find my self struggling with usage of quantum mechanics. Now 'm starting to learn nuclear physics, solid state physics and soon quantum field theory and  see that  have holes in my knowledge. t's not that 'm completely ignorant, 've passed the exam in quantum physics  understand the concepts, but it doesn't feel right,  don't have the intuition like  do for example, classical mechanics or electrodynamics.
					For example, of course, there are problems that  can't solve in classical mechanics or electrodynamics but  always know where to start  have an intuition about the problem and in most scenarios  have an ideas  solutions should look like. But in quantum physics, usually even for simple problems  can get stuck or don't know where to start. 
					 want to rebuild my knowledge from a new source.
					The literature 've used so far :
					ntroduction to Quantum Mechanics by David J.Griffiths,
					Quantum physics by Leonard Schiff,
					Modern Quantum Mechanics (Reved Edition) by J.J.Sakurai.
					
					First one  an easy read, good introduction, but it doesn't use bra/ket notation.
					Second on  just didn't like, it was hard to read, short on examples.
					Third one  really like, but 'd like to see more examples and  can't check solutions for problems at the end of the chapters anywhere.
					
					Could you please recommend me couple of more choices  prefer books with lot of examples of solving problems. Also, while it's fine that book starts with wave functions, solving Schrodinger equations etc, 'd like a book that uses bra/ket notation.

				
					  the position or momentum of a Quantum particle  measured experimentally in laboratory Suppose we want to know the position or momentum of quantum particle   kept in a box i.e. an infinite square well, then  to perform the experiment n some books it  said that we have to use photons to illuminate the quantum particle and then vuale its position but simultaneously it  written that th  just a thought experiment to make students understand the concept.

				
					Th  not a question pertaining to interpretations, after the last one  realized  should not open Pandora's Box ;) 

					For theories to be constent, they must reduced to known laws in the classical domains. The classical domain can be summed up as: 

					

					  OK.  need to know, ever,  that if QM  an independent and fundamental theory,  does it rely so heavily on the classical formalm. s it necessary for a classical formalm to ext in order to have a quantum formalm From as far as  have read, it does not seem so, and  find th puzzling. Suppose you have a dsipative system, or an open system when you cannot write an autonomous Hamiltonian in the classical case,  then do we approach these quantum mechanically, when we cannot even write down the corresponding Hamiltonian. 

				
					Going to as little details as possible, here  a statement from Wald's text on QFT in curved spacetimes( am not quoting the book)

					He considers two vector spaces  and .

					
					  Note - For more details about  and , read th box.  believe for most part of the question, the following details are irrelevant, but  will provide them nonetheless. Otherwe, skip below.
  
					  He starts by considering the solution space of a classical system  with symplectic structure . Th has a natural vector space structure. He complexifies it to  and extends  to  by complex linearity on each variable. He then defines the map  on  as
					  
					  Th satfies all the properties of an inner product except positive-definiteness. He then considers the subspace  of  on  the inner product above  positive-definite. (There are of course many such choices of . Any one of them will do.)
					

					He then ss that there  a one-one onto map . He ss that one can define a real inner product  on . He then goes on to s that one can use th to define a complex inner product on  as
					
					where   an antymmetric function on , i.e. .
					He then uses the Cauchy-Schwarz nequality for . Th reads
					
					Expanding it out, he writes
					
					More specifically
					

					Now, here  the statement that confuses me

					
					  ndeed, since   one-to-one and onto and since the Schwarz inequality on  always can be ``saturated", we obtain the following stronger version of the last inequality: For each  we have
					  
					  Here's my question
					  Q. Where did he get the above expression from
					

					He seems to be claiming that the boxed inequality  always saturated for some vector . s that true 

					PS -  will understand if some people think that th question  more of a math question than a physics one. But,  thought that it might be possible that the answer relies on some of the assumptions we make in physics, so  asked it here. Any comments will be helpful.

				
					f Wien's law sed  was expected when a blackbody was heated but the familiar peaked curves  actually  happened,  were those peaked curves produced 

					

					 am assuming an experiment wasn't really carried out as those temperatures  would be difficult or impossible to produce at the end of the 19th century.  don't see  those graphs could have been produced (therefore highlighting the problem) before Planck suggested quantation. There must be a problem in my understanding but  don't know where. 

				
					t's often said that, as long as the information that fell into a black hole comes out eventually in the Hawking radiation (by ever means), pure states remain pure rather than evolving into mixed states, and "the universe  safe for quantum mechanics."  But that can't be the whole story!  For quantum-mechanical reversibility doesn't merely say that information must eventually be retrievable, after 1070 years or ever; but also that, if U  an admsible transformation of a physical system, then U-1  also an admsible transformation.

					So, just like it must be constent with reversible microlaws for smoke and ash to spontaneously reassemble into a book, it must also be constent for a black hole to spontaneously "uncollapse" into a star, or into ever configuration of ordinary matter could have collapsed to form the black hole in the first place.  And th "white-hole uncollapse process" must be possible in exactly the same amount of time as the black-hole collapse process, rather than an astronomically longer time (as with Hawking radiation).

					n both cases, the explanation for  we never see these processes must be thermodynamic -- i.e., sure they're allowed, but they involve such a crazy decrease in entropy that they're exponentially suppressed.   get that.  But 'm still confused about something, and here's my best attempt to crystallize my confusion:

					n order to explain  it could even be possible for information to come out of a black hole, physicts typically appeal to Hawking radiation,  provides a mechanm based on more-or-less understood quantum field theory in curved spacetime.  (Granted, QFT also predicts that the radiation should be thermal!  But because of AdS/CFT and so forth, today people seem pretty confident that the information, after hanging out near the event horizon,  carried away by the Hawking radiation in some not-yet-understood way.)  ever, suppose it's objected that a Hawking radiation process seems nothing soever like the time-reverse of an ordinary black-hole formation process.  Then the only response  know would be along the lines of, "well, do you believe that QM will survive unaltered in a future quantum theory of gravity, or don't you  f you do, then consider the unitary U corresponding to a black-hole formation process, and invert it to get U-1!"  My question :  couldn't people have made that same straightforward argument even before they knew anything about Hawking radiation  (Or did they make it)  More generally, even if Hawking radiation does carry away the infalling information, that still seems extremely far from implying full quantum-mechanical reversibility.  So,  much does the extence of Hawking radiation really have to do with the case for the compatibility between quantum mechanics and black holes

				
					s there any non-trivial many-body system for  the exact solution to Schrödinger's equation  known (By non-trivial,  mean a system with particle-particle interactions.) Perhaps something like positronium, or two electrons in a box.

				
					 was thinking of the noted 1980 paper by Sidney Coleman and Frank de Luccia--"Gravitational effects of and on vacuum decay"-- about metastable vacuum states that could tunnel to a lower energy "true vacuum" with catastrophic results.  suspect the answer  that if our vacuum  a false one, we wouldn't "see" the true one til it hit us.

					http://prd.aps.org/abstract/PRD/v21/i12/p3305_1

				
					f as some people suggest, there  no collapse of the wave function ( there a standard name for th position), then must one rule out the many-worlds interpretation of QM

				
					n -coupling it  said (e.g. here, link to Google Books1) that in the -coupling scheme the individual  precess around  and the individual  precess around . Every where  have looked, th  simply stated without proof. Hence my question :   it possible to s that such precessions do occur

					1Fundamentals of Spectroscopy by B.Narayan

				
					 was reading through the proof of the Adiabatic Theorem (in Sakurai) and  realed 'm not quite sure  Schrodinger Bas kets behave when we have a time-dependent Hamiltonian.  know that with a time-independent Hamiltonian the bas kets don't change in the Schrodinger Picture.

					So if  are the energy eigenkets of  at time  and   an arbitrary state at time ,  the following at all true
					\begin{align*}
					|\alpha;t\rangle = \sum_n c_n(t)|n;t\rangle = \sum_n c_n(t) e^{i\theta_n(t)}|n,t_0\rangle
					\end{align*}
					where  and   a time-evolution operator

					Wikipedia and Sakurai both have (each in different notation):
					\begin{align*}
					|\alpha;t\rangle = \sum_n c_n(t) e^{i\theta_n(t)}|n;t\rangle
					\end{align*}
					 feel like 'm not understanding th properly at all

				
					 have the one dimensional free particle Schrödinger equation

					

					with general solution

					

					'd expect that the solution  normalized:

					

					But 

					

					and the integral diverges:

					

					  the reason for th Can it be corrected

				
					My question concerns  electrons in a superconductor form Cooper pairs in the BCS ground state, i.e., all of them or only part of them.  am currently reading about superconductivity from Chap. 10, G. Mahan, Many-Particle Physics, 3rd Ed. 

					Mahan writes on page 627: "The basic idea of BCS theory  that the electrons in the metal form bound pairs. Not all electrons do th, but only those within a Debye energy of the Fermi surface." Good, th    have always understood BCS theory. The BCS ground state  given by
					\
					Th  just the standard Fermi sea, if  and , for , and  and , for . Now put the BCS interaction in.  have always understood Cooper pairs as those electrons for 
					\
					where . The gap   non-zero only for states within the Debye energy from  (at ), since BCS assumes an interaction of the form
					\

					So,  understand the superconducting BCS ground state as describing a state where electrons within the Debye energy of  form Cooper pairs, and the rest of the electrons remain unpaired, i.e. do not form a bound Cooper pair. ever, the whole system  superconducting as no excitations can be created unless their energy  above the gap. The unpaired particles are not quasiparticles, since the BCS state  a vacuum state for the quasiparticle annihilation operator.

					Now,  am not sure if my understanding  actually correct, especially since excitations of the BCS state must be created or destroyed in pairs. That's  the excitation gap  . 

					n addition, Mahan writes on page 647: "At zero temperature, all the electrons in the superconductor are in the pair states at the chemical potential." But th clearly contradicts with  he wrote above. Also Ashcroft and Mermin, Solid State Physics writes that in the BCS ground state all of the (conduction) electrons are paired. f all of the electrons are paired, where does the attractive interaction required for forming a Cooper pair emerge for those electrons whose energies are not within  of  t  assumed to be zero in the BCS approach.

					tl;dr Do all of the electrons in the BCS ground state form Cooper pairs f yes, where does the attractive interaction come for electrons with  f not,  do excitations need to created or destroyed in pairs if there are non-Cooper-paired electrons  am aware that the BCS state  a coherent state, etc., but  would like to have a more physical picture of the ground state.

				
					Does a photon having superimposed frequencies ext

					(wrt frequency detected by prm or other detectors, not wrt human eye as only rod-cells can detect one photon falling in the detectable (vible) frequency band and the single photon  perceived by eye+brain as grey irrespective of frequency).

					Also, with white here,  do not wh to restrict the question implying all VBGYOR frequencies or only RGB as each color  also a range of frequencies and white to trichromatic-sensor human eye  just output from three frequencies RGB.

					Or can it be that materials  slow light down cause a photon of some single frequency and higher energy to split into VBGYOR || and the entire spectrum of human eye's detection range  VBGYOR+W (as monochromatic light of high intensity can also be perceived white by human eye and it  not related to individual color sensors of human eye at all but that above a certain energy per unit volume (referring to detector area of eye cells), we perceive it white, (some but not exactly) similar to combination of red and green  human eye+brain calls yellow.

					 have added the additional description to make the question more prece. f my description causes confusion, please stay with the original question and use description just to get an idea of the intent of the question.

				
					My first question  fairly basic, but  would like to clarify my understanding. The second question  to turn th into something worth answering.

					Consider a relativtic electron, described by a spinor wave function  and the Dirac equation. The conventional wdom  that rotating everything by 360 degrees will map the spinor to its negative . ever, it appears to me that th statement  "obviously false", because a rotation by 360 , when viewed as an element of the group , exactly equal to the identity map and cannot map anything to its negative.

					Thus, to make sense of the behavior of spin under "rotation",  have to conclude the following

					
					  The rotation group  does not act on the configuration (Hilbert) space of electrons. Only its double cover  acts on the space of electrons.
					

					s th interpretation correct

					So, essentially, there  a symmetry group   acts on "physics", but its action on the spatial degrees of freedom  just that of .

					
					   other groups, even larger than , are there that (could) act on "physics" and are an extension of  s it possible to classify all possibilities, in particular the ones that are not direct products
					

					Of course, gauge freedoms will give re to direct products like  (acting on space  electromagnetic potential), but  would consider these to be trivial extensions.

				
					The Wikipedia page on the Lamb shift includes the following first steps:

					

					Because the fluctuations are otropic: 

					

					Then

					

					 understand that step (1)  a Taylor expansion. Step (2.1) also makes intuitive sense, otropy means that it  the same in every direction so it's no surpre that the expectation of   zero. 

					 can also understand step (3),  seems to be substituting results from step (2) into step (1), while ignoring higher order terms. 

					ever,  have no clue where step (2.2) comes from.  attempted naively expanding the dot product as you would with , but  don't know if th  allowed. 

					n the same vein, notation we,   the same as   know that the scalar product  commutative, but then  returns the divergence. 

					TL;DR: Don't know where step 2 comes from, and getting confused by vector calculus. 

				
					'm trying to understand  products on tensor products work. For instance, in quantum mechanics, you have ( tensor ) times ( tensor ), where , , ,  are all operators acting on a Hilbert space.  want to believe that it's just  tensor , but 'm looking online and that only applies for von Neumann algebras (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Von_Neumann_algebra), but 'm not sure if the operators in quantum mechanics forms a ring.

				
					 saw th recent article on Phys.org that purports to close all remaining loopholes that previous experiments on violations of Bell's inequality left open. My question , does th really close the door on any possibility of local realm being true  know these articles tend to have some exaggeration added in for good effect, but  wanted to understand whether things have really changed from the standpoint of different interpretations of Quantum Mechanics.

					Both locality and realm seem very intuitive (especially the latter,  many physicts/philosophers/ordinary people have a very hard time giving up), and Bell himself said it best:

					"For me, it  so reasonable to assume that the photons in those experiments carry with them programs,  have been correlated in advance, telling them  to behave. Th  so rational that  think that when Einstein saw that, and the others refused to see it, he was the rational man. The other people, although htory has justified them, were burying their heads in the sand. ... So for me, it  a pity that Einstein's idea doesn't work. The reasonable thing just doesn't work."

					 know he was a strong proponent of the Bohmian nterpretation and strongly felt that QM would at its core end up being formulated in an observer independent way that would ensure the elements of the theory correspond to actual things in the external world. 'm very much of the same persuasion, but  wanted to get some input from people who know much more about the subject than  do.  are the options Does th experiment mean anything with respect to Bohmian mechanics/MW/other "realt" interpretations of QM And  of th recent speculation into ER = EPR Does that idea actually suggest that communication could be facilitated through subatomic wormholes, thereby bypassing any worries of nonlocality

					Any input  greatly appreciated!

				
					Perhaps th question makes no sense physically, but  it theoretically possible to entangle a photon with an electron, for example

					 know that entanglement links a specific property of particles, but  there any property that maps across particles, e.g. spin, that can be entangled across particles

					As an side,  heard that, in the original German, Schroedinger () used the word entwinement  got translated to entanglement in Englh.  Unfortunate, since  entwinement sounds so much better.

				
					n quantum mechanics, the unitary time translation operator   defined by ,  and the Hamiltonian operator   defined as the limit of  as  goes to .  Similarly, the one-dimensional spatial translation operator  defined by  and the momentum operator   defined as the limit of  as  goes to .  My question ,   it that the Hamiltonian operator can be a function of the time parameter , but the momentum operator cannot be a function of the position parameter  

					The only good answer 've gotten to th question  that time  not an operator in non-relativtic quantum mechanics, whereas position  an operator, so momentum being a function of position would spoil the position-momentum commutation relation.  But th explanation doesn't make sense to me, because consider the case of spin angular momentum.  f  denotes the rotation operator for intrinsic rotations about the z-ax (as opposed to orbital rotations), then the spin angular momentum operator  (as opposed to Beyoncé)  defined as the limit of  as  goes to .  And yet   not a function of the angle , even though there  no operator in quantum mechanics corresponding to .  (There  another operator called ,   one of the position operators in spherical coordinates, but that has nothing to do with spin and the  that 'm talking about.)  So "the parameter has a corresponding operator" doesn't seem like the right explanation, since it doesn't explain  spin angular momentum can't be a function of angle.

					Note that 'm not looking for an ad hoc explanation like "that wouldn't make physical sense in terms of  energy and momentum work classically".   want a first principles explanation in quantum mechanics.

				
					Th  a  on 't Hooft's beable models (see here: Dcreteness and Determinm in Superstrings) for quantum mechanics, and the goal  to understand to  extent these succeed in reproducing quantum mechanics. To be prece,  will say an "'t Hooft beable model" consts of the following:

					
					A very large classical cellular automaton, whose states form a bas of a Hilbert space.
					A state   imagined to be one of these bas elements.
					A unitary quantum time evolution operator , for a series of dcrete times, reproduces the cellular automaton evolution rules.
					

					't Hooft's main argument (  interesting and true)  that it  possible to reexpress many quantum systems in th form. The question  whether th rewriting automatically then allows you to consider the quantum system as classical.

					The classical probabilitic theory of a cellular automaton necessarily consts of data   a probability dtribution  on CA states evolving according to two separate rules:

					
					Time evolution: , where prime means "next time step" and B  the automaton state. You can extend th to a probabiltic diffusion process without difficulty.
					Probabiltic reduction: if a bit of information becomes available to an observer through an experiment, the CA states are reduced to those compatible with the observation.
					

					 should define probabiltic reduction—it's Bayes' rule: given an observation that we see produces a result , but we don't know the exact value , we know a the probability  that the result  , the probabiltic reduction 

					

					where   the value of   would be produced if the automaton state  , and   a normalization constant. Th process  the reason that classical probability theory  dtinguhed over and above any other system—one can always interpret the Bayes' reduction process as reducing ignorance of hidden variables.

					The bits of information that become available to a macroscopic observer internal to the CA through experiment are not microscopic CA values, but horrendously nonlocal and horrendously complex functions of gigantic chunks of the CA. Under certain circumstances, the probabiltic reduction plus the measurement process could conceivably approximately mimic quantum mechanics,  don't see a proof otherwe. But the devil  in the details.

					n 't Hooft models, you also have two processes:

					
					Time evolution: .
					Measurement reduction: the measurement of an observable corresponding to some subsystem at intermediate times, , as in standard quantum mechanics, reduces the wavefunction by a projection.
					

					The first process, time evolution,  guaranteed to keep you not superposed in the global variables, since th  just a permutation in 't Hooft's formulation, that's the whole point. But  have seen no convincing argument that the second process, learning a bit of information through quantum measurement, corresponds to learning something about the classical state and reducing the CA probabiltic state according to Bayes' rule.

					Since 't Hooft's models are completely prece and calculable (th  the great virtue of h formulation), th can be asked precely:  the reduction of the wavefunction in response to learning a bit of information about the CA state through an internal observation always mathematically equivalent to a Bayes reduction of the global wavefunction

					 will point out that if the answer  no, the 't Hooft models are not doing classical automata, they are doing quantum mechanics in a different bas. f the answer  yes, then the 't Hooft models could be completely rewritable as proper activities on the probability dtribution , rather than on quantum superposition states.

				
					s it logically sound to accept the canonical commutation relation (CCR)

					 

					as a postulate of quantum mechanics Or  it more correct to derive it given some form for  in the position bas 

					 understand QM formalm works, it's just that  sometimes end up thinking in circles when  try to see where the postulates are. 

					Could someone give me a clear and logical account of  should be taken as a postulate in th regard, and an explanation as to  their viewpoint  the most right, in some sense!

				
					The Poson bracket  defined as:

					

					The anticommutator  defined as:

					

					The commutator  defined as:

					

					 are the connections between all of them

					Edit: Does the Poson bracket define some uncertainty principle as well

				
					Rule  learned:

					
					  only photons with quanta of energy match matching the exact difference between energy levels can be absorbed/ reemitted.
					

					But to me optical density works opposite to th rule. Photons of any frequency (not just the resonance frequency, and frequency represents the energy it carries) can pass through a transparent material, and more importantly be slowed down to some extent. That the light (not just vible light) gets slow down  an evidence that atoms of any material  able to absorb the photon and release back into the inter -atomic voids. 

					Maybe  have a mconception. Perhaps electrons don't have to change their energy level in order to reemit the photons/ energy they have absorbed....

				
					Now, 'm not very involved in the physical sciences, beyond some high-school classes - though  did lten to some college lectures for physics.

					 was reading "Do Tachyons Ext" by John Baez,   a bit advanced for some people. ever, the author makes one claim  find questionable: that we can have an imaginary mass. f we take the mass to be imaginary, then Einstein's mass-momentum relationship remains intact.

				
					 am trying to understand pure and mixed states better.  f  have N quantum particles in an olated system. The many-particle state  a superposition of the product of single-particle states by the appropriate stattics (bosons, fermions, or dtinguhable). Would th state be still considered pure since there  no interaction with the environment 

					Does that mean olated systems or microcanonical ensembles are always pure 

				
					've just now rated David Bar Moshe's post (below) as an "answer", for  appreciation and thanks are given. 

					Nonetheless there's more to be said, and in hopes of stimulating further posts, 've added additional background material.  n particular, it turns out that a 2003 article by Bloch, Golse, Paul and Uribe &ldquo;Dpersionless Toda and Toeplitz operators&rdquo; includes constructions that illustrate some (but not all) of the quantization techniques asked-for, per the added dcussion below.  

					

					The question asked :

					
					   does one geometrically quantize the Bloch equations
					

					Background

					From a geometric point-of-view, the Bloch sphere  the simplest (classical) symplectic manifold and the Bloch equations for dipole-coupled spins specifies the simplest (classical) nontrivial Hamiltonian dynamics.

					n learning modern methods of geometric quantization&nbsp;&mdash; as abstractly described on Wikipedia's Geometric Quantization article for example&nbsp;&mdash; it would be very helpful (for a non-expert like me) to see the quantum Hamiltonian equations for interacting spins derived from the classical Hamiltonian equations.  

					To date, keyword searches on the Arxiv server and on Google Books have found no such exposition.  Does mean that there's an obstruction to geometrically quantizing the Bloch equations  f so,   it  Alternatively, can anyone point to a tutorial reference

					The more details given, and the more elementary the exposition, the better! :) 

					

					Some engineering motivations

					t  natural in quantum systems engineering to pullback quantum Hamiltonian dynamics onto tensor network state-spaces of lower-and-lower dimension (technically, these state-spaces are a stratification of secant varieties of Segre varieties).  

					t should be appreciated too that in th context &ldquo;quantum Hamiltonian dynamics&rdquo; includes stochastic unravellings of Lindbladian measurement-and-control processes (per these on-line notes by Carlton Caves).  Presenting the unravelled trajectories in  Stratonivich form allows the open quantum dynamics of general Lindblad processes to be pulled-back with the same geometric naturality as closed quantum dynamics of Hamiltonian potentials and symplectic forms.  Th Lindbladian pullback idiom  absent from mathematical dcussions of geometric quantization, e.g. the above-mentioned article Bloch et al..  n essence we engineers are using these pullback techniques with good success, without having a complete or even geometrically natural understanding of them.

					Pulling back through successive state-spaces of smaller-and-smaller dimensionality, we arrive (unsurpringly) at an innermost state-space that  a tensor product of Bloch spheres that inherits its (classical) symplectic structure from the starting Hilbert space.  Moreover, the Lindblad processes pull back (also unsurpringly) to classical noe and backaction that respects the standard quantum limit.

					For multiple systems engineering reasons, we would like to understanding th stratification backwards and forwards, in the following geometrically literal sense: on any state-space of th stratification, we wh the dual option of either pulling-back the dynamics onto a more classical state-space, or pushing-forward the dynamics onto a more quantum state-space.

					nsofar as possible, the hoped-for description of geometric (de/re)quantization will illuminate th duality in both directions.   Needless to say, the simpler and more geometrically/informatically natural the description of th duality, the better (recognizing that th naturality  a lot to hope for). :)

				
					As a preface,  am not a physict.  'm simply interested in abstract physics and fundamental principles of the universe and such.  As such, if you can provide an answer for the layman (as non-academic and unjargonized as possible), it would be very, very appreciated so that  can actually understand it.

					Everything  ever learned about physics seemed to be built off of an assumption that the universe and everything in it behaved determintically.  So it should always be a (theoretical) possibility that, given perfect knowledge of every particle and force in the universe at a given moment, we can calculate with 100% accuracy  the state of the universe will be in the next moment.

					Th of course assumes omncience and unlimited computational capacity,     said th  only a theoretical possibility.  ever, we can define our closed system to be much smaller -- say, a bottle full of nitrogen and helium -- and apply th principle more directly.  And it seems like th assumption  absolutely necessary for scientific experiments to even take place or have any validity, since without th kind of determinm, the observations and the results inferred from them can't ever actually be trusted.

					 don't understand quantum mechanics very well, but it seems like th theory breaks th assumption completely.  From   understand, there  no way to predict  the state of the particle will be at the next moment.  The most  can know  that, given that a particle  in state A, it will next be in state B or state C.  There  absolutely no way to know for sure, and the only way to find out  to observe it actually change.  Furthermore, observations of th kind don't yield any insight into  other particles in state A will do.

					So, in classical physics, laws used to look like th:

					A -&gt; B   [A implies B]
					

					But with quantum physics, all of th  gone, and our laws can at best look something like th:

					A -&gt; ((B v C) v D) v E   [A implies B, or C, or D, or E, or ...]  
					

					 does th not break everything physics  built upon  The implications of th are seriously troubling to me, and  feel like it destroys everything  thought  knew.  Can anyone explain  th works in slightly lower-level terms, or s  it's still possible for the theories and laws of classical physics to hold any weight

				
					n quantum mechanics, one makes the dtinction between mixed states and pure states.  A classic example of a mixed state  a beam of photons in  50% have spin in the positive -direction and 50% have spin in the positive -direction.  Note that th  not the same as a beam of photons, 100% of  are in the state
					
					t seems, ever, that at least in principle, we could describe th beam of particles as a single pure state in a 'very large' Hilbert space, namely the Hilbert space that  the tensor product of all the  particles ( think that's the proper order of magnitude at least).

					So then,  the density operator a mathematical convenience, or are there other aspects of quantum mechanics that truly require the density operator to be a 'fundamental' object of the theory

					(f   mean by th  at all unclear, please let me know in the comments, and  will do my best to clarify.)

				
					've always seen the standard interpretation and axioms of QM as in some way tricky on a philosophical level. They state the collapse of the wave function  caused by the measurement.

					
					  3.b f   an observable with eigenvalues  and eigenvectors  ), given a system in the state , the probability of obtaining  as the outcome of the measurement of   . After the measurement the system  left in the state projected on the subspace of the eigenvalue  (wave function collapse)
  
					  source: https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-51-quantum-theory-of-radiation-interactions-fall-2012/lecture-notes/MT22_51F12_Ch3.pdf, page 15
					

					've known the general consensus  that the collapse of the wave function  a manifestation of a more general process called decoherence. So in the standard interpretation, the wave function seems to collapse due to the environment, but it really collapses due to the measurement. Maybe because in the first experiments of the physicts of the 20th century the measurement apparatus caused the collapse of the wave function, so it might have seemed the best way to define those axioms..

					 don't we use the decoherence process as an axiom some
					n th way, we might avoid some minterpretation of quantum mechanics and have a deeper understanding of the subject.

				
					The question  inspired from the answer to s a QFT in a classical curved spacetime background a self-constent theory ( am going to reference th link as "The Q" to avoid confusion).

					
					As far as my reading goes, the literature seems to suggest that for a fairly broad class of background manifolds, a "time function" exts on all points of a manifold (http://www.theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de/forschung/qft/research/theses/ds/Solveen.pdf page 10 and possibly the answer to "The Q" also and others). f th  indeed the case - corrct me if it  not - then would not the Point 3 of the answer to "The Q" addressed, as we now have time (And also the Point 2, as th seems to take care of in-out states sues.) Or  there some problem that would not allow us to use ordinary normal ordering QFT Fock space machinery/tools
					n the comment to the answer to "The Q", there was a talk about defining QFT in a curved spacetime without reference to Minkowski vacuum.  do not understand  th  supposed to mean. Do these approaches eliminate the concept of "vacuum" (For all observers, the tangent space to the point they are at  Minkowski spacetime, so  guess th  the case)
					For th alone, inspired from the last slide in http://www.damtp.cam.ac.uk/user/pz229/Research_files/QFTCS.pdf :   the last slide exactly saying Th slide does not seem to talk about renormalization sues, and it seems to talk about quantum vacuum technically having infinite energy. But don't we ignore th sue anyway when we decided to define a QFT in a classical background spacetime That , doesn't th divergence sue go away once we fix a classical background spacetime (of course th , in many ways, not a correct way of doing physics, but we do th as an approximation anyway). 
					And  would be other divergence sues in QFT on a curved spacetime (specifically restricted to sues introduced by defining QFT on a curved spacetime)
					QFT in a curved spacetime does suffer from having a fixed classical background spacetime - but let us for now forget about the sues caused by th, including back-reaction problems. Other than the problems lted above,  will be other sues in QFT in a curved spacetime
					

				
					 understand  spin  defined in analogy with orbital angular momentum. But  must electron spin have magnetic quantum numbers   Sure, it has to have two values in accordance with the Stern-Gerlach experiment, but  precely those values

				
					 do the Heenberg and Schrödinger pictures in quantum mechanics correspond to in classical mechanics (if they correspond to anything) t's kind of weird, because (if  understand it well) in classical mechanics the state of the system  determined by the dynamical variables positions and conjugate momenta, so the time dependence of the dynamical variables  the same as the time dependence of the state vector,  don't see whether the two could be separated. Nevertheless can it be done some

				
					'm an undergraduate student in Chemtry currently studying quantum mechanics and  have a problem with unitary transformations. 
					Here in my book, it  stated that 

					
					  Every unitary operator  can be written in an exponential form as follows:
					  
					

					Provided that  have no knowledge of Lie Group/Algebra, my  are:

					
					 a unitary operator can be always represented by an exponential form
					  the intuitive mathematical meaning of the exponential form/matrix
					  the relation between the operator  and the operator 
					  its physical meaning
					

				
					s there a way to motivate, retrospectively, that observables must be representable by 

					
					linear operators 
					on a Hilbert space 
					

					Specifically, there seems to be a hint to something in the accepted answer to th question. There, the author writes that 

					
					  "[...] and since these commutators satfy the Jacobi identity, they can be
					  represented by linear operators on a Hilbert space."
					

					
					s th true f an observable can be written as a commutator (like the three coordinates of angular momentum), does it automatically follow that it corresponds to some linear operator f yes,  /  th a theorem with a name
					

					Thanks for further hints, and for all hints so far. Quantum mechanics  still really strange to me, additional motivation for one of the postulates would be edit:  nice. 

					f you want me to clarify further, please say so.

					

					Th question: " did the operators come about" seems related, but the answer doesn't help since it starts from the postulates. My question  about possible motivations one could give for one of the postulates.

					

					Revion htory part 1: The question was quite general before, it also asked "where did the operators come from"  aready has a very good answer here.

					

					For completeness / Revion htory part 2:
					Another approach might be via Wigner's theorem, that any symmetry operator on a Hilbert space  either linear unitary or antilinear antiunitary (and then one could maybe go from symmetry operators to their generators, and find out that they correspond to observables). Originally the question was also whether th line of argumentation works as well. But probably, th  covered in the htorical sources, given here and in the comments.

				
					n the paragraph 1–2 "Matter  made of atoms" of the first Volume of h lectures, the great Feynman says that electrons are in a perpetual motion.
					Now, i'm new to physics and i don't know quantum mechanics, but for  i understood about Classical Mechanics, perpetual motion  not possible (at least for the moment :)  ).

					Now,  did Feynman want to mean saying that electron are in  perpetual motion 

				
					Nature today publhed a (paywalled) article that mentions 'Self-accelerating Dirac wavepackets'. They claim that they behave in a similar fashion as the diffractive tricks of polarized beams that have light twt in a direction, but in th case with charged particles (A previous article by some of the authors on the same subject)

					Now, on the media article (unfortunately  don't have access to the original paper, although  might end up buying a copy in a few days if  don't find someone to borrow a copy) they say that th happens due to 'uncertainty principle' and that the 'acceleration  compensated by larger position uncertainty in the opposite direction'.

					 don't understand very well  that means, but  suspect  it means  that it cannot be used to accelerate a spaceship

					  your interpretation of the claims in the article  th just useless for space propulsion f as they also claim in the media article, the acceleration  indtinguhable from acceleration due to EM fields,  don't see  it wouldn't, but it wouldn't be the first time that quantum physics troll our expectations

					Edit: t seems that the question boils down to  counter-force  exerted by the beam on the holographic mask grating used to generate the wavepacket, and  such counter-force would compare to a similar electron beam without any grating

				
					  the most direct way of observation of quantization of angular momentum

				
					s the Schrodinger equation invariant under Galilean transformations

					 am only asking th question so that  can write an answer myself with the content found here:

					http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Likebox/Schrodinger#Galilean_invariance

					and here:

					http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Likebox/Schrodinger#Galilean_invariance_2

					 learned about these pages in a comment to th answer by Ron Maimon.  think Ron Maimon  the original writer of th content.

					Th  creative commons, so it's ok to copy it here. t  not on any textbook on non-relativtic quantum mechanics that  know of, and  thought it would be more accessible (if to no one else, at least for myself) and safe here.  hope th type of question  not in dagreement with site policy.

				
					The Heenberg's uncertainty principle states the following:

					

					While studying for my high school physics exams,  fooled myself into believing that  understood the uncertainty principle (at least the implications). But suddenly the question that's nagging me  the following. f the uncertainty  of an electron  1.2 nm, does it imply that the probability that the x-coordinate lies within a 1.2 nm range, equal to 100% Or does it mean that the probability  95% Or does it mean something totally different

					 wonder  no author made it clear in the high school/junior college level textbooks.  am uncertain about  uncertainty means.    

				
					 a lambda particle decays into proton and a pion,  am told it does not conserve parity.  

				
					s there any way in quantum field theory to derive the Pauli exclusion principle for fermions

					 looked at the wiki page but it just says, 

					
					  n relativtic quantum field theory, the Pauli principle follows from applying a rotation operator in imaginary time to particles of half-integer spin.
					

					but there it gives no references for mathematical or even physical bas of th sentence.

					s there any introductory reference for that statement or can anybody explain it, please

				
					 paper(s) or theory(s) describe or prove that the elementary particles that we have determined today cannot be made up of smaller more fundamental particles

				
					There  th surpring "Asking photons where they have been" PRL 2013 article about experiment where they are able to "ask photons"  mirrors they have vited: by vibrating each mirror with different frequency and performing Fourier transform of the final beam - vited mirrors are marked in the power spectrum.

					The problem  that th way they see mirrors we would naively say they shouldn't - mirrors A,B below:

					

					The small inteferometer (with mirrors A,B)  set for destructive interference: such that no photons go through mirror F,   tested in the lower setting: that if we block beam from mirror C, no light gets to detector.

					For explanation, the article uses two-state vector formalm (TSVF): that e.g.  should be undestood that   result of forward propagator from  to now,  of backward propagator from  to now,  seems kind of natural e.g. when thinking about Feynman path integral formulation using ensemble of paths from  to .

					They explain that we see A, B, C mirrors because only these tree are vited by photons propagating in both time directions.

					s it the proper understanding of th experiment - can it be explained without back-propagation

				
					Classical computers store information in bits,  can either be  or , but, in a quantum computer, the qubit can store ,  or a state that  the superposition of these two states. Now, when we make a "measurement" (to determine the state of qubit), it changes the state of the qubit, collapsing it from its superposition of  and  to the specific state constent with the measurement result.

					f from a measurement of a qubit we obtain only a single bit of information ( or , because the qubit collapses to either of the states), then,   a qubit better than a classical bit Since ultimately we are only able to get either  or  from either classical or quantum bit.

					f you can explain with an example, it may be helpful.

				
					n a course on modern physics we are beginning to get into probability amplitudes and the inherent unknown in some things, say the position of an electron in an orbital.

					 do we know that these things can't be precely figured out 
					Could it be the case that there  a phenomenon or relationship we just aren't aware of

					Things like the laws of thermodynamics and magnetic dipoles can't be mathematically derived, but are taken as ubiquitously true because no counterexample has ever been found. Are probability amplitudes the same

				
					http://www.sciencealert.com/the-magnetic-field-just-outside-our-black-hole-has-been-studied-for-the-first-time reported strong magnetic fields escape out of black holes. Does that rule out photons being a component off a magnetic field since light/photon are trapped by the black hole

					

					

				
					The particle in an infinite potential well in QM  usually solved by easily solving Schrodinger differential equation. On the other hand particle in the harmonic oscillator oscillator potential can be solved elegantly algebraically using the creation and annihilation operators to find its spectrum.

					s it possible to do the particle in a box problem using creation and annihilation operator and 

				
					suppose  have an electrostatic potential   expand in spherical harmonics via

					

					and  know that the field has cubic symmetry. s there something  can say about the coefficients   ask because th would be the case for the crystal field in a cubic crystal, where it  known that the  and the  orbitals are splitted.  am trying to s that the matrix-element  the same for all , and the same for all .  tried it using the Wigner-Eckart theorem, but that seems not to be enough;  also need some symmetry relations for the ...

				
					The Berry phase accumulated on a path can be described by a matrix when we look at adiabatic time evolution with a Hamiltonian with degenerate energy levels.
					The Berry phase matrix  given by 
					

					here  parametrizes the said path and . Now   want to do  calculate the Berry Curvature, something that, if  assume my path above  closed and has three determining coordinates,  ,     such that 

					
					note that the  and  here are matrices and we're integrating over the surface  enclosed by curve  

					  stopping me from applying the stokes theorem to  and getting 

					t  said that the answer contains a matrix commutator  c because th berry phase  non abelian. but  seem to be msing something fundamental.

					Edit:
					Note: th also corresponds to problem 2 Chapter 2 of Topological insulators and superconductors by Bernevig and Hughes

				
					A particle hitting a square potential barrier can tunnel through it to get to the other side and carry on. s there a time delay in th process

					

				
					 can't understand the spectrum in the figure on page 19 from Argyres' lecture notes on supersymmetry:
					http://www.physics.uc.edu/~argyres/661/susy1996.pdf

					

					Argyres  considering a supersymmetric quantum mechanical system of an anharmonic oscillator, with a superpotential .  The plots of  and  make perfect sense.   doesn't make sense  the spectrum on the right.

					 are there both x's and o's over each Hamiltonian  and    thought   exclusively the spin-up Hamiltonian and   exclusively the spin-down Hamiltonian, so therefore the spectrum const of a column of just x's over  and a column just of o's over .

					Additional request:  Would someone please write down the form of  and  in their answer, so to make sure we're on the same page  A graph of the the respective potentials  and  would be even better.

					Take a look at the much more sensible figure on page 7.  Th  something that  can comprehend.

					

				
					n Physics class we were doing the two slit experiment with a helium-neon red laser. We used th to work out the wavelength of the laser light to a high degree of accuracy. On the piece of paper the light shined on there were patterns of interference, both constructive and destructive. My question , when the part of the paper appeared dark, where did the energy in the light go

				
					For any state  evolving infinite time
					 
					Let  , then only the lowest energy eigenstate in  survives. Therefore
					
					where   the lowest  lowest energy eigenstate in . For general states  have ground state evolving infinite time, they all become the ground state.

					's the physical and mathematical meaning of th operation of artificially introducing  th small decay 

					Th result  so weird and always used in qft.  could it happen

					For example, let  and , then for any time the probability of the state  being   . t contradicts with the result above. So  to resolve th puzzle

				
					On the one hand, classical electromagnetm tells us that light  a propagating wave in the electromagnetic field, caused by accelerating charges. Then comes quantum mechanics and says that light consts of particles of quantized energy, . Also, now these particles are modeled as probability waves obeying Shrodinger's equation,  gives the probability of observing a photon particle at some point in space at any given time.

					My question  -  does that change our model of the classical electromagnetic field Do we now view it as some sort of average, or expectation value, of a huge number of individual photons emitted from a source f so,  are the actual  and  values at a point  calculated :  are they related-to/are-from the probability amplitudes of observing individual photons at that point Or put another way -  do the probability amplitude wavefunctions of the photons give re to the electromagnetic vector field values we observe

					[n classical EM, if  oscillate a charge at frequency ,  create outwardly propagating light of that frequency. 'm trying to picture  the QM description of th situation would be -  my oscillation creating a large number of photons ( many), with the  some encoded in their wavefunctions]

					(Also,  was the answer to these  before quantum field theory was developed)

				
					've read that free neutrons decay into a proton, electron and neutrino with an average lifespan of about 15 minutes. s there anything physically different about a neutron that has exted for 14 minutes and one that has only exted for one minute Does a random outside event trigger the decay or  something internally in the neutron slowly falling apart

				
					 read many articles about renormalization in the nternet, but as  currently don't know much of QFT (currently just studying classical field theory and QM), and as all th looks quite interesting, 'd like to still get some bit of understanding and feeling of it — in the context of non-relativtic quantum mechanics.

					So, my question : are there any (hopefully simple) examples of quantum mechanical problems, applying perturbation theory to  will give divergent series,  can then be regularized by renormalization procedure  are they,  does th process of renormalizing them look like

				
					The slide called "QUANTA" here says that "One Quantum has a definite mass" and the picture ss a wave. So,   meant by the mass of a wave

				
					 have recently read that an orbital node in an atom  a region where there  a 0 chance of finding an electron.

					ever,  have also read that there  an above 0 chance of finding an electron practically anywhere in space, and such  that orbitals merely represent areas where there  a 95% chance of finding an electron for example.

					 would just like to know if there truly  a 0 probability that an electron will be within a region defined by the node.

					Many thanks.

				
					Let us say that  apply a non-unitary transformation  to the ket's:
					
					
					Clearly in th case the probability:
					
					Will change.  physically  going on here i.e.  for unitary operators we can perform such a transformation but for non-unitary operators we can't

				
					There are similar  to mine on th site, but not quite   am asking ( think).  The de Broglie relations for energy and momentum

					

					equate a specific frequency and wavelength to a particle, yet we know that a wave packet
					 a linear combination of an infinite range of frequencies and wavelengths.    it that we (or nature) choose one frequency and wavelength out of the range  Does th have to do with the collapse of the wave packet when measured  And if so,  the resulting measured frequency a random outcome  Similarly, when an electron jumps from one energy level to another in an atom, it emits a photon of frequency

					

					Since the photon  not a pure sinusoidal wave,  can a single frequency be ascribed to the photon

				
					'm studying Weinberg's QFT books, and regarding symmetries 'm quite confused about the dtinction between a group and its representations in Weinberg's presentation.

					
					First of all, Weinberg states that symmetry transformations are ray transformations preserving the probabilities  defined for a ray  and a family of mutualy orthogonal rays  to be

					

					He then points out (p. 52) that:

					
					  The set of symmetry transformations has certain properties that defines it as a group. f   a transformation that takes rays  into  and   another transformation that takes  into , then the result of performing both transformations  another symmetry transformation,  we write , that takes  into . Also, a symmmetry transofrmation   takes rays  into  has an inverse written   takes  into  and there  an identity transformation   leaves rays unchanged.
					
					He also states Wigner's theorem that states that symmetry transformations defined as above can be realized either by unitary linear or antiunitary and antiliear operators on the Hilbert space . n h notation, for every symmetry transformation  one gets a unitary operator . Then Weinberg proves that

					
					

					saying that   a projective representation of the symmetry transformations.

					After th recap, here are my :

					So by (1) above, to deal with symmetryes, Weinberg  actualy implictly considering that there  a group  such that we have one homomorphm  mapping  into the group of ray transformations

					n other words, for every  we have  a ray transformation. Upon imposing the symmetry requirement by (2) above, we have that all  descends to one  and these  form a projective representation of  . 

					Because of that in the end he forgets  altogether and directly works with projective representations of  on the Hilbert space of states. s that it

					The main difference between  'm writing and Weinberg  that 'm trying to abstract a group from its representations. 

					So 'm guessing there  one underlying group  of symmetries,  give re to the ray transformations and then to the projective representations, while Weinberg seems to identify  with the ray transformations themselves.

					s my point of view correct of considering there  one abstract group behind all of th Or there  actually no group behind the ray transformations, and Weinberg  actually defining a group with the ray transformations themselves, instead

				
					Classically it was said that measurement leads to a collapse of the wave function. ever, if there wouldn't be any limit on the process on measurement itself, strange things can happen, e.g. a particle that  confined to a small region by a very strong potential could by measuring its momentum with high precion be made to be spread out instantaneously all over space. Likewe, if a particle  detected at one location, so its position  measured with very high precion, at any moment after that it can be detected arbitrarily far away.

					n Feynman's lectures on physics, he goes into the explicit measurement process in the double slit experiment, where light  used to detect  slit the electron passed through. As long as the photons can detect the slit the electron went through, the interference pattern  destroyed.  the frequency of the light  reduced to diminh the impact, the interference pattern keeps being dturbed, up to the moment when the wavelength of the photons  so large that they are not able to determine  slit the electron passed through.

					Likewe, in th answer by John Rennie to the question  it can be that if you measure the momentum of a particle with very high precion its uncertainty may extend over one light year, he explains  (doing th with light at least) a measurement with that precion would take a year. 

					As another example, in th answer by DanielSank to the part of my question where it was asked  it could be that a measurement of a particle in a box with infinite walls could be made to tunnel out by making a measurement, it was suggested that there  a fundamental limitation on the precion of the measurement.

					n all three examples it looks like the restrictions on the measurement process are exactly conspiring to avoid any undesired behaviour to occur. s there any fundamental reason for that

					Thanks!

				
					 am having problem in understanding  do we consider the continuity of the Logarithmic derivative of the wave function at the boundary of the Scattering Potential   understand that physical arguments require the wavefunction to be continuous but  the logarithmic derivative.

					 where a  the length scale of the scattering potential.

				
					Th might be a very elementary question. Considering that electrons in typical metals have very high Fermi velocity,   it that when you touch a metal you feel cold My intuition tells me that due to Fermi-Dirac dtribution only a tiny fraction of electrons near the Fermi surface participate in heat conduction. Heat transfer due to electrons  tiny compared to transfer due to phonons. s th reasoning correct

				
					s there any known, verifiable way to transfer classical information faster than light, using quantum entanglement or other phenomenon

					Does quantum teleportation, or other known phenomenon, allow FTL transfer of information (not "quantum state", but true classical information)

					A friend and  have a few 
					f(x,y) = \sum\limits_{i} \sum\limits_{j} c_{ij} g_{i}(x) h_{j}(y) \, , \quad (1)
					
					c_{j}(x) = \sum\limits_{i} c_{ij} g_{i}(x) \, ,
					
					f(x,y) = \sum\limits_{j} c_{j}(x) h_{j}(y) \, .
					
					f(y) = \sum\limits_{j} c_{j} h_{j}(y) \, ,
					P(t) \propto \left( \frac{\sin(\omega t/2)}{\omega/2} \right)^2, \qquad \hbar\omega = E_b - E_a a_{\pm} \equiv \frac 1 {\sqrt{2m}}\bigg( \frac {\hbar}{i} \frac {d}{dx} \pm im \omega x\bigg)a_{\pm} \equiv \frac 1 {\sqrt{2\hbar m \omega}}\bigg(\mp ip + m \omega x\bigg)E^{(2)}_n ~=~ \sum_{m \neq n}\frac{|\langle m | H' | n \rangle|^2}{E_n^{(0)}-E_m^{(0)}}
					\langle j_1|T_{j_2}|j_3\rangle
					
					\langle R_1|T_{R_2}|R_3\rangle
					T=UK|\psi^R\rangle=T|\psi\rangle=UK|\psi\rangle=U|\psi^*\rangle\langle\psi^R|O^R|\phi^R\rangle=\langle\psi|O|\phi\rangle\langle\psi^*|U^{\dagger}O^RU|\phi^*\rangle=\langle\psi|O|\phi\rangleO^R=UO^TU^{\dagger}\frac{\partial W(x,p;t)}{\partial t} = -\frac{p}{m}\frac{\partial W(x,p;t)}{\partial x}+m\omega^2x\frac{\partial W(x,p;t)}{\partial p}\frac{\partial W(x,p;t)}{\partial t} = -\frac{p}{m}\frac{\partial W(x,p;t)}{\partial x}-\frac{1}{2 \pi \hbar^2} \int_{-\infty}^{\infty}dp'F(x,p-p')W(x,p')F(x,p-p')=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} dx' \sin \left( \frac{x'(p-p')}{\hbar} \right) \left[ V \left( x+\frac{x'}{2} \right)-  V \left( x-\frac{x'}{2} \right) \right]F(x,p-p') =m\omega ^2 x\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} dx' x' \sin \left( \frac{x'(p-p')}{\hbar} \right). |\phi(\vec x,t)\rangle=\int d^3x \phi(\vec x,t) \Phi(\vec x) |0\rangle
					\left|\Psi_\mathrm{BCS}\right\rangle = \prod_k \left( u_k - v_ke^{i \phi} c_{k\uparrow}^{\dagger} c_{-k\downarrow}^{\dagger}\right) \left|0\right\rangle
					\frac{1}{2m}\left[\left(\frac{\partial S}{\partial x}\right)^2 \ + \ \left(\frac{\partial S}{\partial y}\right)^2 \ + \ \left(\frac{\partial S}{\partial z}\right)^2\right] \ + \ V(x,y,z) \ - \ E \ = \ 0\frac{K^2}{2m}\left[\left(\frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial x}\right)^2 \ + \ \left(\frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial y}\right)^2 \ + \ \left(\frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial z}\right)^2\right] \ + \ (V \ - \ E)\Psi^2 \ = 0.  = \iiint_\mathcal{V}\left(\frac{K^2}{2m}\left[\left(\frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial x}\right)^2 \ + \ \left(\frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial y}\right)^2 \ + \ \left(\frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial z}\right)^2\right] + (V - E)\Psi^2\right)\,\mathrm{d}x\,\mathrm{d}y\,\mathrm{d}z\langle\mu\rangle =[g_lj+(g_s-g_l)\langle s_z\rangle]\frac{\mu_N}{\hbar}\tag{1}
					\frac{dA}{dt} = -\{H, A\}_{P.B.} + \frac{\partial A}{\partial t},
					\tag{2}
					\hat {\frac{d A}{d t}} = \hat {\dot {A}}= \frac{i}{\hbar }[\hat H, \hat A] + \hat {\frac{\partial A}{\partial t}}.
					
					S[x] = \int dt \frac{1}{2} \dot x^2 + \frac{1}{2}\omega^2 x^2
					
					S[x] = \int dt \frac{1}{2} x ( -\partial_t^2 + \omega^2 )x
					
					\langle 0|\mathcal{T}x(t_i) x(t_f) | 0 \rangle  = \frac{1}{2\omega} e^{-i\omega|t_i-t_f|}
					
					\langle x_f,t_f|x_i,t_i\rangle 
					A \mapsto UAU^\dagger = g.AA \mapsto [X,A] = \delta A\textrm{where}\ \    X \in \mathfrak{g}\ \ \textrm{and} \ \  e^{iX} = U \ \  \textrm{and} \ \  e^{i\delta A} = g.A i\hbar\frac{\partial}{\partial t} \psi(\vec x,t) = \sqrt{-\hbar^2c^2\nabla^2+m^2c^4}\psi(\vec x,t)  \{a_k^{\dagger},a_q^{\dagger}\} = 0 = \{a_k,a_q \}  \{a_k^{\dagger},a_q\} = \delta_{kq} \, . [a_k^{\dagger},a_q^{\dagger}] =   [a_k,a_q] =   [a_k^{\dagger},a_q] =   \{a_k,a_q \} = a_ka_q + a_qa_k = 0 \;\Longrightarrow\; a_ka_q-a_qa_k = -2a_qa_k = [a_k,a_q]i\hbar\partial_t\psi(t)=H(t)\psi(t).\psi(t)=e^{-i\varepsilon_n t/\hbar}u_n(t),p^2 = \frac{L^2}{r^2}+\frac{1}{r^2}\left\{(\textbf{r}\cdot \textbf{p})^2-i\hbar(\textbf{r}\cdot \textbf{p})\right\}{L}^2 = {\textbf{r}}^2{\textbf{p}}^2-\left(\textbf{r}\cdot\textbf{p}\right)^2+i\hbar\textbf{r}\cdot\textbf{p}
					\begin{array}[c|ccc]
					\mbox{} &amp; \mbox{Dirichlet condition} &amp; \mbox{Neumann condition} \\ \hline \\
					\Delta \psi = \psi_t &amp; \mbox{zero temperature boundary} &amp; \mbox{perfect insulating boundary}\\
					\Delta \psi = i\psi_t &amp; \mbox{infinite potential well} &amp; \mbox{} \\
					\Delta \psi = \psi_{tt} &amp; \mbox{fixed-boundary membrane} &amp; \mbox{free-boundary membrane}
					\end{array}
					|\text{spin up}, \text{going right} \rangle, \quad |\text{spin down}, \text{going right} \rangle.|\text{spin up}, \text{going up-right} \rangle, \quad |\text{spin down}, \text{going down-right} \rangle.|\text{spin up}, \text{going right} \rangle, \quad |\text{spin down}, \text{going right} \rangle.|\text{spin up}, \text{going up-right}, \text{SG down} \rangle, \quad |\text{spin down}, \text{going down-right}, \text{SG up} \rangle.|\text{spin up}, \text{going right}, \text{SG down} \rangle, \quad |\text{spin down}, \text{going right}, \text{SG up} \rangle.
					\mathcal{L}[\mathcal{O}] = -\frac{i}{\hbar}[H,\mathcal{O}] + \sum_i \gamma_i\left(L_i\mathcal{O}L_i^{\dagger} - \frac{1}{2}\left\{L_i^{\dagger}L_i,\mathcal{O}\right\}\right)
					H = \frac{p^2}{2m} - \frac{m_e}{(m_e+m)m}p^2\frac{p^2}{2m} - \frac{p^2m_e}{2m^2}
					E = E_0 - \frac{1}{2}i \Gamma.
					H=H_0+H_{\text{int}}.\langle f |S|i\rangle = \lim_{t_\pm\to \pm\infty}\langle f | S(t_+,t_-)|i\rangle|\psi(t)\rangle_=U(t,t_0)|\psi(t_0)\rangle_\lim_{t_{\pm}\to\pm\infty}\langle f | U(t_+,t_-)|i\rangle = \langle f | S |i\rangle \langle f|S|i\rangle=\lim_{t_{\pm}\to \pm \infty}\langle f |S(t_+,t_-)|i\rangle=\lim_{t_{\pm}\to\pm \infty} \langle f | e^{iH_0(t_+-t_-)} U(t,t_0)|i\rangle\langle f | S | i\rangle = \lim_{t_{\pm}\to \pm\infty} e^{i\omega_f (t_+-t_-)} \langle f | U(t_+,t_-)|i\rangle.\Psi_{n,l,m} (r, \theta, \phi) = N e^{\frac{-r}{n r_1}} R_n^l (r) P_l^m(cos \theta) e^{im\phi} \,.\exp\left[\left(\begin{array}{cc}
					a &amp; b\\
					c &amp; d
					\end{array}\right)\right]=\frac{e^{\frac{a+d}{2}}}{\triangle}\left(\begin{array}{cc}
					\triangle \cosh(\frac{\triangle}{2})+(a-d)\sinh(\frac{\triangle}{2}) &amp; 2b\cdot \sinh(\frac{\triangle}{2})\\
					2c\cdot \sinh(\frac{\triangle}{2}) &amp; \triangle \cosh(\frac{\triangle}{2})+(d-a)\sinh(\frac{\triangle}{2})
					\end{array}\right)
					\log\left[+\left(\sigma_{x}-\right)\right]=\left(\sigma_{x}-\right)-\frac{\left(\sigma_{x}-\right)^{2}}{2}+\frac{\left(\sigma_{x}-\right)^{3}}{3}...
					
					\left(\sigma_{x}-\right)=\left(\begin{array}{cc}
					-1 &amp; 1\\
					1 &amp; 1
					\end{array}\right)\left(\begin{array}{cc}
					-2 &amp; 0\\
					0 &amp; 0
					\end{array}\right)\left(\begin{array}{cc}
					-\frac{1}{2} &amp; \frac{1}{2}\\
					\frac{1}{2} &amp; \frac{1}{2}
					\end{array}\right)
					H=\frac{\text{Z}^2}{ r}+\underbrace{\frac{p^2}{m}+\frac{p^4}{m^3}}_{\text{kinetic}}+\underbrace{\frac{\text{Z} \ L\cdot S}{r^3}}_{\text{spin-orbit}}+\underbrace{\frac{\text{Z}}{m^2}\delta(r)}_{\text{Darwin term}}
					P_i=\langle d_i^\dagger (t) \;d_i (t)\rangle= -iG_{ii}^&lt;(t,t)
					
					|1,1,0\rangle=c_2^\dagger  c_1^\dagger|\Omega\rangle \\
					|0,0,1\rangle=  c_3^\dagger|\Omega\rangle 
					
					P_{|1,1,0\rangle}=|1,1,0\rangle\langle1,1,0| \\
					P_{|0,0,1\rangle}=  |0,0,1\rangle\langle0,0,1| 
					i \hbar \frac{\partial\psi(x,t)}{\partial t} = - \frac{\hbar^2}{2m} \frac{\partial^2\psi(x,t)}{\partial x^2} + V(x,t) \psi(x,t),E_n = - \frac{\hbar^2}{2m} \frac{\partial^2\psi(x,t)}{\partial x^2} + V_2(x) \psi(x),\sigma_x \sigma_p \ge \frac{\hbar}{2}\bar \sigma_x=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \lvert x-\bar x\rvert\,\rho(x) \ \mathrm{d}x = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \lvert x-\bar x\rvert\ \lvert\Psi(x)\rvert^2\ \mathrm{d}x\bar \sigma_x \bar \sigma_p \ge \lambdaH =H_0+V, \frac{d}{dt}\hat{A}=i[H,\; \hat{A}]+\sum_i \gamma_i\bigg(M_i^\dagger\,\hat{A}\, M_i-\frac{1}{2}\{ M_i^\dagger M_i,\;\hat{A}\}\bigg),  \frac{d}{dt}(\hat{A}\hat{B})\neq \frac{d}{dt}(\hat{A})\,\hat{B}+\hat{A}\frac{d}{dt}(\hat{B}).  \frac{d}{dt}(\hat{A}\hat{B})-\frac{d}{dt}(\hat{A})\,\hat{B}-\hat{A}\frac{d}{dt}(\hat{B})=\sum_i\gamma_i\,[M_i^\dagger,\, \hat{A}]\,[\hat{B},\, M_i].  AB(t)\neq A(t)\,B(t).\psi(x,y,z) = \psi(x)\psi(y)\psi(z) \quad\text{when}\quad V(x,y,z) = V(x) + V(y) + V(z) = V(z).
					|\Psi \rangle = |h_{1},\mathbf k;h_{2},-\mathbf k\rangle
					
					\tag 1 |L,R\rangle , \quad |R,L\rangle, \quad |L,L\rangle \pm |R,R\rangle
					
					\tag 2 |J-S|\leqslant L\leqslant J+S
					H=E_0\sum\limits_{n}|n\rangle\langle n|-t\sum\limits_{n}\Big(|n\rangle\langle n+1|+|n+1\rangle\langle n|\Big)\tag{1}E(k)=E_0-2t\cos(ka)\tag{2}|\psi\rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left(|\uparrow \downarrow\rangle + |\downarrow\uparrow\rangle\right)|\psi\rangle = |\uparrow\downarrow\rangle\psi(x) = \int \widetilde{\psi}(k) e^{ikx} \mathrm{dk}E(k)  = \int |\widetilde{\psi}(k)|^2 k \  \mathrm{dk} A |x\rangle = x'|x\rangle A |\psi\rangle = |\psi'\rangleP = - i \hbar \frac{\partial}{\partial x},\quad P \psi(x) = - i \hbar \frac{\partial}{\partial x} \psi(x)|\psi\rangle
					= \int_{-\infty}^\infty |x\rangle \langle x| \,\mathrm{d}x\; |\psi\rangle
					= \int_{-\infty}^\infty |x\rangle \langle x|\psi\rangle \,\mathrm{d}x
					= \int_{-\infty}^\infty \psi(x) |x\rangle  \,\mathrm{d}x\psi(x) = \langle x|\psi\rangleA \psi(x) = A \langle x | \psi \rangle = \langle x | A | \psi \rangle\rho=\dfrac{\iota}{2m}\bigg(\psi^*\dfrac{\partial \psi}{\partial t}-\psi \dfrac{\partial \psi^*}{\partial t}\bigg)\nabla \cdot \vec{j}+\dfrac{\partial \rho}{\partial t}=0\vec{j}=\dfrac{1}{2m\iota}\big(\psi^*\nabla\psi-\psi\nabla\psi^*\big).E_0^1 = \langle 0|H'|0\rangle
					\langle 0|aa^\dagger a^\dagger|0\rangle
					+\langle0|aaa^\dagger a^\dagger|0\rangle
					=\langle0|aa^\dagger a|1\rangle
					+\langle0|aaa^\dagger|1\rangle\omega_n(x_1,\dots,x_n)  = \langle \Omega | T\{\phi(x_1)\cdots\phi(x_n)\}|\Omega\rangle.dP_{1\leftarrow 2}=\psi_1^* \psi_2 d^3 r  i \hbar \partial_t \psi_{1,2}= -\frac{\hbar^2}{2m} \nabla^2 \psi_{1,2} + V\psi_{1,2}\partial_t ( \psi_1^*\psi_2) +\frac{\hbar}{2mi} \nabla\cdot \left( \psi_1^* \nabla \psi_2 - (\nabla \psi_1^* )\psi_2\right)=0\partial_t \rho +\nabla.\mathbb{j} =0**** \psi_1^*\times\left( i \hbar \partial_t \psi_2 = -\frac{\hbar^2}{2m} \nabla^2 \psi_2 + V\psi_2\right)\left( -i \hbar \partial_t \psi_1^*= -\frac{\hbar^2}{2m} \nabla^2 \psi_1^* + V\psi_1^*\right)\times \psi_2\partial_t (\psi_1^*\psi_2 )= -\frac{\hbar}{2mi} \left( \psi_1^* \nabla^2 \psi_2 - (\nabla^2 \psi_1^* )\psi_2\right) \partial_t (\psi_1^*\psi_2 )= -\frac{\hbar}{2mi} \nabla\cdot \left( \psi_1^* \nabla \psi_2 - (\nabla \psi_1^* )\psi_2\right)\eta_q = \sum_i \left( g_{qi}c_i+h_{qi}c_i^\dagger \right) \eta_q^\dagger = \sum_i \left( g_{qi}c_i^\dagger + h_{qi}c_i
					 \right) \sum_i \left( g_{qi}g_{q'i} + h_{qi}h_{q'i} \right) = \delta_{qq'}\sum_i \left( g_{qi}h_{q'i} - g_{q'i}h_{qi} \right) = \delta_{qq'}\sum_i \left( g_{qi}h_{q'i} - g_{q'i}h_{qi} \right) = \delta_{qq'}\\sum_i \left( g_{qi}h_{q'i} + g_{q'i}h_{qi} \right) = \delta_{qq'}[L_i,p_j] ~=~ i\hbar\;  \epsilon_{ijk}p_k,[L_i,r_j] ~=~ i\hbar\;  \epsilon_{ijk}r_k,[L_i,L_j] ~=~ i\hbar\;  \epsilon_{ijk}L_k.[L_i,(p\times L)_j].[AB,C] = A[B,C]+[A,C]B,[L_i,\epsilon_{jmn}p_m L_n], =~ \epsilon_{jmn}(\;p_m[L_i,L_n]+[L_i,p_m]L_n ). =~i\hbar\; \epsilon_{jmn}(\; \epsilon_{ink}p_mL_k+\epsilon_{imk}p_kL_n).\hat{U}(t,t_0) \lvert \mathrm{universe} (t_0) \rangle =  \lvert \mathrm{universe} (t) \rangle.J_{\pm} \ket{\ j,m}=e^{i\phi} \hbar \sqrt{j(j+1)-m(m\pm1)} \ket{\ j,m\pm1}j_z=\begin{bmatrix}
					1 &amp; 0&amp;0\\ 
					0&amp; 0&amp;0\\ 
					0&amp; 0&amp;-1
					\end{bmatrix}, j_+=\sqrt{2}
					\begin{bmatrix}
					0 &amp; 1&amp;0\\ 
					0&amp; 0&amp;1\\ 
					0&amp; 0&amp;0
					\end{bmatrix}, j_-=\sqrt{2}\begin{bmatrix}
					0 &amp; 0&amp;0\\ 
					1&amp; 0&amp;0\\ 
					0&amp; 1&amp;0
					\end{bmatrix},j_x=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}
					\begin{bmatrix}
					0 &amp; 1&amp;0\\ 
					1&amp; 0&amp;1\\ 
					0&amp; 1&amp;0
					\end{bmatrix}, j_y=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\begin{bmatrix}
					0 &amp; -i&amp;0\\ 
					i&amp; 0&amp;-i\\ 
					0&amp; i&amp;0
					\end{bmatrix}j_z^{(2)}=j_z=\begin{bmatrix}
					1 &amp; 0&amp;0\\ 
					0&amp; 0&amp;0\\ 
					0&amp; 0&amp;-1
					\end{bmatrix}, j_+^{(2)}=\sqrt{2}
					\begin{bmatrix}
					0 &amp; i&amp;0\\ 
					0&amp; 0&amp;1\\ 
					0&amp; 0&amp;0
					\end{bmatrix}, j_-^{(2)}=\sqrt{2}\begin{bmatrix}
					0 &amp; 0&amp;0\\ 
					-i&amp; 0&amp;0\\ 
					0&amp; 1&amp;0
					\end{bmatrix},j_x^{(2)}=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}
					\begin{bmatrix}
					0 &amp; i&amp;0\\ 
					-i&amp; 0&amp;1\\ 
					0&amp; 1&amp;0
					\end{bmatrix}, j_y^{(2)}=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\begin{bmatrix}
					0 &amp; 1&amp;0\\ 
					1&amp; 0&amp;-i\\ 
					0&amp; i&amp;0
					\end{bmatrix}\frac{1}{r^2} \frac{\partial }{\partial r} \left( r^2 \frac{\partial R(r)}{\partial r}\right) + \frac{2 \mu}{\hbar^2} \left( E - V(r) - \frac{\ell(\ell+1)\hbar^2}{2 \mu r^2}\right)R(r) = 0 \tag{1}u''(x) + k(x)^2 u(x) = 0 \tag{2}u(x) = \frac{C_1}{\sqrt{k(x)}} \sin \left( \int^x k(x) dx\right) + \frac{C_2}{\sqrt{k(x)}} \cos \left( \int^x k(x) dx\right)\tag{3}\oint \hbar k(x) dx = \left( n + \frac 1 2 \right) \pi \hbar. \tag{4} \frac{d^2u(r)}{dr^2}  + \frac{2 \mu}{\hbar^2} \left( E - V(r) - \frac{\ell(\ell+1)\hbar^2}{2 \mu r^2}\right)u(r) = 0. \tag{5}\int_{R_{min}}^{R_{max}} \sqrt{2 \mu \left( E + \frac{e^2}{r}- \frac{\ell(\ell+1)\hbar^2}{2 \mu r^2}\right)}dr = \left( n + \frac 1 2\right) \hbar \pi.\tag{6}E_n = - \frac 1 2 \cdot \frac{\mu e^4}{\hbar^2 (n + \ell+1)^2}.\tag{7}
					H ~=~ \frac{p_r ^2}{2m} + \frac{L^2}{2mr^2} -\frac{e^2}{r}
					\,.E_n = - \frac{me^4}{2 \hbar ^2 n^2}  Ψ_{nlm}~=~R_{E,l}\left(r\right) Y_{lm}\left(φ,\, θ\right)\,.
					\frac{\mathrm{d}E_λ}{\mathrm{d}e}~=~\left&lt; Ψ_{nlm} \, \middle| \, \frac{\mathrm{d}H}{\mathrm{d}λ} \, \middle| \, Ψ_{nlm} \right&gt;
					\,,
					\left&lt; R_{E,l}\left(r\right) Y_{lm} \left(φ,\, θ\right) \, \middle| \, \frac{\mathrm{d}H}{\mathrm{d}l} \, \middle| \, R_{E,l} \left(r\right) Y_{lm} \left(φ, \, θ \right) \right&gt;
					\,.\delta(a)=\lim_{a \rightarrow 0} \delta_{a}(x)  \delta_{a}(x) := \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi a^2}}e^{-x^2/2a^2}\psi_{x_0}(x)\cong N_1\delta_a(x-x_0).=(n)
					\hat{H} \Psi = E_{el} \Psi
					
					-\frac{{\hbar}^2}{2 m_e} \Delta \Psi -\frac{e^2}{4 \pi \varepsilon_0} \left(\frac{1}{r_1}+\frac{1}{r_2}\right)\Psi = E_{el} \Psi
					
					a_0=\frac{4 \pi \varepsilon_0 \hbar^2}{m_e e^2} = 0.5291 *10^{-10} m
					
					E_h=\frac{\hbar^2}{m_e a_0^2}=27.21 eV
					
					\Delta \Psi + \frac{2}{a_0}\left(\frac{1}{r_1}+\frac{1}{r_2}\right)\Psi=-2 \frac{E_{el}}{E_h a_0^2} \Psi
					 \Delta =\frac{4}{R^2 (\xi^2 - \eta^2) } \left[\frac{\partial }{\partial \xi} (\xi^2 -1)\frac{\partial }{\partial \xi}+\frac{\partial }{\partial \eta} (1-\eta^2)\frac{\partial }{\partial \eta}+\frac{\xi^2 - \eta^2}{(\xi^2-1)(1-\eta^2)}\frac{\partial^2 }{\partial \phi^2}\right]  \frac{\partial }{\partial \xi} (\xi^2 -1)\frac{\partial \Xi }{\partial \xi} + \left(2r\xi+A+\frac{1}{2}r^2 \varepsilon \xi^2 - \frac{\Lambda^2}{\xi^2-1}\right)\Xi=0  \frac{\partial }{\partial \eta} (1-\eta^2)\frac{\partial H }{\partial \eta} + \left(-A-\frac{1}{2}r^2 \varepsilon \eta^2 - \frac{\Lambda^2}{1-\eta^2}\right)H=0  \frac{\partial^2 \Phi }{\partial \phi^2} = - \Lambda^2 \Phi  2 \xi f + (\xi^2-1)(f'+f^2)-\left(2r\xi+A+\frac{1}{2}r^2 \varepsilon \xi^2 - \frac{\Lambda^2}{\xi^2-1}\right)=0 E=h\nu\mathcal{L} =\overline{\psi}(-i\gamma^\mu \partial_\mu +m)\psi \mathcal{L}^\dagger =\psi^\dagger(i\gamma^0\gamma^\mu \gamma^0 \partial_\mu +m)\gamma^0\psi =\overline{\psi}(i\gamma^\mu \overleftarrow{\partial_\mu} +m)\psi \neq \mathcal{L}.\boldsymbol{\nabla}\cdot\textbf{B}(\textbf{r})=0\tag{1}
					
					\hat{\phi}\left(\vec{x}\right)\left|\Phi\right\rangle =\Phi\left(\vec{x}\right)\left|\Phi\right\rangle .
					
					\left|\Phi\right\rangle =e^{-\int d^{3}x\frac{1}{2}(\Phi(\vec{x})-\hat{\phi}_{+}(\vec{x}))^{2}}\left|0\right\rangle 
					
					\hat{\pi}\left(\vec{x}\right)\left|\Pi\right\rangle =\Pi\left(\vec{x}\right)\left|\Pi\right\rangle 
					
					\left|\Pi\right\rangle =e^{\int d^{3}x\frac{1}{2}(\Pi(\vec{x})+\hat{\phi}_{+}(\vec{x}))^{2}}\left|0\right\rangle .
					
					\left\langle \Pi|\Phi\right\rangle =\exp\left[-i\int d^{3}x\Pi\left(\vec{x}\right)\Phi\left(\vec{x}\right)\right]
					
					\left\langle \Phi'|\Phi\right\rangle =\int\mathcal{D}\Pi\left\langle \Phi'|\Pi\right\rangle \left\langle \Pi|\Phi\right\rangle =\int\mathcal{D}\Pi\exp\left(-i\int d^{3}x\Pi\left(\vec{x}\right)\left[\Phi\left(\vec{x}\right)-\Phi'\left(\vec{x}\right)\right]\right)
					\frac{\mathrm{d}\sigma_{if}}{\mathrm{d}\Omega} \propto \frac{k^\prime}{k} |V_{fi}|^2
					\vec z = \
					= \
					
					P_{\mathbf z}(\mathbf z&#39;) = \frac 12 (1 + \vec z&#183;\vec z&#39;) = \frac 12 (1 + \cos\measuredangle(\vec z,\vec z&#39;))
					
					\langle\mathbf z,\mathbf{Az}\rangle = \sum_i α_iP_{\mathbf a_i}(\mathbf z)
					
					\langle\mathbf z,\mathbf{Az}\rangle = \frac 12(α_1 + α_2) + \frac 12(α_1-α_2)\,\vec a_1&#183;\vec z
					
					\langle\mathbf z,\mathbf{Az}\rangle = \vec A&#183;\vec z
					P_n\mathbb C \cong \mathbb C^{n+1}\setminus\{0\}\:\big/\:\mathbb C^*P_n\mathbb C \cong U(n+1)\:\big/\:U(n)\times U(1)P_n\mathbb C \cong S^{2n+1}\:\big/\:S^1S^7\xrightarrow{S^3}S^4S^3\xrightarrow{S^1}S^2|\psi(t)\rangle = U(t)|\psi(0)\rangleU(\epsilon) =  + \epsilon HU(\epsilon) =  - i\epsilon H
					\left| \left&lt; \phi _1|\psi _1\right&gt; \right| =\left| \left&lt; \phi _2|\psi _2\right&gt; \right| =\left| \left&lt; U(x)\phi _1|U(x)\psi _1\right&gt; \right|
					\left( -\frac{1}{2m}\nabla^2+ V(\vec{r},t)\right)\psi = i\partial_t \psi\psi = \dplaystyle\sum_n a_n\phi_n(\vec{r})e^{-iE_n t}H=\omega(a^\dagger a+\frac{1}{2}).\psi(x)=\frac{1}{2\sqrt{2}} \left(\frac{m\omega}{\pi\hbar}\right)^{1/4}e^{-\frac{m\omega x^2}{2\hbar}}H_2(\sqrt{\frac{m\omega}{\hbar}}x).\phi_k(x)=\sqrt{\frac{2}{L}}\sin kx.H=\omega_k(a^\dagger_k a_k+\frac{1}{2}).\Phi(x_1,x_2)=\sqrt{2}\phi_k(x_1)\phi_k(x_2).\langle j_1 m_1 j_2 m_2 |J M \rangle = (-1)^{j_1+j_2-J} \langle j_2 m_2 j_1 m_1|J M\rangle,|JM\rangle =\sum_{m_{1},m_{2}}|j_{1}m_{1}\rangle\otimes|j_{2}m_{2}\rangle\langle j_{1}m_{1}j_{2}m_{2}|JM\rangle
					 =\sum_{m_{1},m_{2}}|j_{2}m_{1}\rangle\otimes|j_{1}m_{2}\rangle\langle j_{2}m_{2}j_{1}m_{1}|JM\rangle
					 i{\frac  d{dt}}U(t,t_{0}) =V_(t)U(t,t_{0})\tag{1} Z(g)=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\frac{dx}{\sqrt{2\pi}}\exp(-\frac{1}{2} x^2 -g x^4)=\sum_{n}g^n _ng^n_n=\frac{(-g)^n}{n!}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\frac{dx}{\sqrt{2\pi}}e^{-\frac{1}{2}x^2}x^{4n}=\frac{(-g)^n}{n!}(4n-1)!!\propto(\frac{-gn}{e})^nZ(g)=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\frac{dx}{\sqrt{2\pi}}\exp(-\frac{1}{2} x^2 -g x^4)= \frac{1}{4\sqrt{g\pi}}e^{\frac{1}{32g}}K_{1/4}(\frac{1}{32g})\sum_{n=0}^\infty \frac{A^n}{n!}e^A=\sum_{n=0}^\infty \frac{A^n}{n!}U(t,t_{0})=T \exp(-i\int _{{t_{0}}}^{{t}}{dt_{1}V_(t_{1})})U=e^{iQ},U=\frac{1+iQ}{1-iQ}.H=\frac{1}{2}\hbar\omega_0 \sigma_z+\hbar\omega \hat{a}^{\dagger}\hat{a}+\hbar g(\sigma_{+}+\sigma_{-})(\hat{a}+\hat{a}^{\dagger}),\ -\frac{\hbar^2}{2m}\frac{d^2\psi}{dx^2} + V\psi = E\psi\frac{d\sigma}{dE_2d\Omega}=\frac{\alpha^2}{4*E_1\sin^4{\frac{\theta}{2}}}(W_2\cos^2{{\frac{\theta}{2}}}+2W_1\sin^2{{\frac{\theta}{2}}})F_1=MW_1F_2=\nu W_2H=\frac{\hat{p}^2}{2m}+U(x).\left(\frac{\hat{p}^2}{2m}+U(x)-E\right)\psi(x)=0.H_\alpha, H_\beta, H_\gamma\lambda=C\frac{n^2}{n^2-4}
					C=3646 \mathring{\text{A}}
					n=3,4,5[J_x,J_y]=iJ_z, \quad [J_y,J_z] = iJ_x,\quad [J_z,J_x] = iJ_y[J_+,J_-] = 2J_z,\quad [J_z,J_\pm] = \pm 2J_z.P(\theta_1, \theta_2) = \cos^2(\theta_1 - \theta_2)Y = g_2(t_2) &lt; \cos^2 (\theta_1 - \theta_2) \overline{X}_1 \overline{Y} + X_1 Y\psi(L,M_L,S,M_S)=\psi(5,5,\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2})=(2^+,2^-,1^+)\psi(5,4,\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2}) = \sqrt{3/5} (2^+,2^-,0^+) - \sqrt{2/5} (2^+,1^+,1^-) \sqrt{18} \psi(5,3) = \sqrt{3/5} [ \sqrt{4} (1^+, 2^-, 0^+) + \sqrt{4} (2^+,1^-,0^+) + \sqrt{6} (2^+, 2^-, -1^+)]  \sqrt{18} \psi(5,3) = \sqrt{12/5} (1^+, 2^-, 0^+) + \sqrt{12/5} (2^+,1^-,0^+) + \sqrt{18/5} (2^+, 2^-, -1^+) \sqrt{18} \psi(5,3) = \sqrt{12/5} (1^+, 2^-, 0^+) + \sqrt{12/5} (2^+,1^-,0^+) \sqrt{18} \psi(5,3) = -\sqrt{12/5} (2^-, 1^
					+, 0^+) + \sqrt{12/5} (2^+,1^-,0^+) + \sqrt{18/5} (2^+, 2^-, -1^+) \psi(5,3) = -\sqrt{12/90} (2^-, 1^
					+, 0^+) + \sqrt{12/90} (2^+,1^-,0^+) + \sqrt{18/90} (2^+, 2^-, -1^+)K=\sum e^{\frac{-i E_n (t_f-t_i)}{\hbar}} \frac{e^{im (\phi_f - \phi_i)}}{{2 \pi}}{\Omega(\theta_f)}\Omega(\theta_i) || \psi - \psi _{n} || &lt; \varepsilon.\hat{x}=x+\frac{i\hbar}{2}\frac{\partial}{\partial p},\qquad \hat{p}=p-\frac{i\hbar}{2}\frac{\partial}{\partial x}.U(\Lambda'\Lambda) = U(\Lambda')U(\Lambda).U(\Lambda)^{-1} = U(\Lambda^{-1})\langle p\rangle = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\Psi * \frac{\hbar}{i}\frac{d}{dx}\Psi dx\langle p\rangle = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\frac{\hbar}{i}\frac{d}{dx}|\Psi|^2 dxH = 1 \cdot \left| a \right\rangle \left\langle a \right| + 1 \cdot \left| b \right\rangle \left\langle b \right| + 2 \cdot \left| c \right\rangle \left\langle c \right|.\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \phi(k)\exp\biggl(ikx-\frac{ihk^2t}{4m\pi}\biggr)\mathrm{d}kk=\frac{\sqrt{2mE}}{h/2\pi}\Psi(x, t) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}}\int_{-\infty}^{+\infty}\phi(k) e^{i\bigl(kx - \frac{\hbar k^2}{2m}t\bigr)}\mathrm{d}ks=(p_A+p_B)^2=(p_C+p_D)^2,
					the second term on the left side  one of the compoments of a position 4-vector, while the first term seems to be the corresponding component of the momentum-energy 4-vector, i.e. the proper time derivative of the position component multiplied by the invariant mass.

					Does th have any "deeper" (ever that means) physical significance or something else  going on here

					'm perfectly aware that th might be a silly question, but 'm still learning both quantum and spacetime physics and  never had to deal with the intersection between those two, so  would appreciate a simple clarification!

				
					The conceptual model  have been introduced to for cooper pairs in a bulk superconductor    would call the "wake" model, where one electron deforms the positively charged lattice, changing the potential energy landscape and causing the second electron to be drawn closer. 

					Th seems like a terrible conceptual picture both because the electrons in a superconductor should have a well defined localized wave function and because the ground state of the BCS theory has zero net momentum,  would suggest they orbit around each other or something... 

					f anyone can explain   should be thinking about th  would be very grateful.  

				
					Th  an BM movie about  they move single atoms: http://www.youtube.com/watchv=oSCX78-8-q0

					There are often some "wavh" pattern around atoms on these pictures, like below some of them marked with red triangles:

					

					Are these patterns real

					For example, it can be dturbances in sublayer Or it can be observable quantum non-locality of atoms

					Or th can be just imperfection of microscopic device.

					  th

				
					 have seen many  on SE on the dual nature of electrons behaving in certain circumstances as particles and as waves in some other circumstance. There  one thing  couldn't get a clear answer on.

					 making double slit experiment, we all agree that the electrons behave as waves. The same  true in atoms, where electron levels are described by Schrödinger equation. ever, if we speak about a field like plasma physics (my field of work) and maybe beam physics, electrons are treated classically as particles with applying Newton's equation to describe their motion. The models built on particle treatment of electrons s an excellent agreement with experimental results.

					From experimental results and testing, we know that electrons behave like waves (in double slit experiment) or as particles (gas dcharge models). My question ,  experimenting the only way to decide  model (wave/particle) describes electrons better in particular circumstances sn't there any theoretical frame that decides whether electrons will behave as particles or wave in particular circumstance

					For the record, in plasma physics the strongest type of theoretical models  called Particle n Cell models (PC). n those models Newton equation of motion  solved for a huge number of particles including electrons. Then the macroscopic properties are determined by averaging. Th method although it treats electrons classically it  very successful in explaining  happens in experemints

				
					s there any sense in  we can consider Action a physical observable   would experiments measuring it even look like   am interested in answers both in classical and quantum mechanics.

					 ran across a physics textbook called "Motion Mountain" today, with volumes covering a broad swath of physics, written over the past decade by a dedicated German physict with support from some foundations for physics outreach. So it appears to be a serious endeavor, but it's approach to many things  non-standard and often just sounds wrong to me. n dcussing h approach to some topics the author says:

					
					  On action as an observable
  
					  Numerous physicts finh their university studies without knowing that action  a physical observable. Students need to learn th. Action  the integral of the Lagrangian over time. t  a physical observable: action measures  much  happening in a system over a lapse of time. f you falsely believe that action  not an observable, explore the sue and convince yourself - especially if you give lectures.
					

					http://www.motionmountain.net/onteaching.html

					Further on the author also dcusses measurements of th physical observable, saying

					
					  No single experiment yields [...] action values smaller than hbar
					

					So  think he does mean it literally that action  physically measurable and  furthermore quantized. But in  sense, if any, can we dcuss action as an observable

					

					My current thoughts:
					Not useful in answering the question in general, but hopefully explains where my confusion  coming from.

					 will admit, as chasted in the quote,  did not learn th in university and actually it just sounds wrong to me. The textbook covers classical and quantum mechanics, and  really don't see  th idea fits in either.

					Classical physics
					The system evolves in a clear path, so  guess we could try to measure all the terms in the Lagrangian and integrate them along the path. ever, multiple Lagrangians can describe the same evolution classically. The trivial example being scaling by a constant. Or consider the Lagrangian from electrodynamics  includes a term proportional to the vector potential,   itself not directly measurable. So if Action was actually a "physical observable", one could determine the "correct" Lagrangian,  to me sounds like nonsense.  Maybe 'm reading into the phrasing too much, but  cannot figure out  to interpret it in a manner that  actually both useful and correct.

					Quantum mechanics
					At least here, the constant scaling sue from classical physics goes away. ever the way to use the Lagrangian in quantum mechanics  to sum over all the paths. Furthermore, the sue of the vector-potential remains. So  don't see  one could claim there  a definite action, let alone a measurable one.  Alternatively we could approach th by asking if the Action can be viewed as a self-adjoint operator on Hilbert space ... but the Action  a functional of a specific path, it  not an operator that acts on a state in Hilbert space and gives you a new state. So at first blush it doesn't even appear to be in the same class of mathematical objects as observables.

					Ultimately the comments that experiments have measured action and s it  quantized, make it sound like th  just routine and basic stuff  should have already learned. n  sense, if any, can we dcuss action as a physical observable  would experiments measuring it even look like

				
					Are there any "natural" physical observables  have non-empty point spectrum  consts of numbers  are not algebraic numbers

				
					Trying to wrap my head around the following situation.

					Consider first a case that  understand well: Let's assume a three level system where the lowest two levels are degenerate and individually couple to a third level, higher in energy by some large . The Hamiltonian may be written as 
					

					f we want to integrate out the higher energy level, we can use the partition method / downfolding to get an effective coupling 
					 to arrive at an effective Hamiltonian for the two-level system,
					

					The denominator  comes from a term  in the perturbation expansion where   the Hamiltonian for the higher-energy sector. 

					So far, so good, because both states in the low-energy sector have the same energy.

					But  if the energies aren't the same

					Let's consider the Hamiltonian
					
					with a small . ever, then  cannot simply set  in the denominator for the perturbation expansion. 

					 know that  can still use Rayleigh-Schroedinger perturbation theory to calculate the energy corrections, but  if  don't want to do that and rather want an effective Hamiltonian for those two low-energy states

					Just to be clear:  don't want to "solve" the Hamiltonian per se, and rather want to arrive at an effective Hamiltonian for the low-energy subspace,  will look something like
					

				
					Scattering length  3d  well-defined. n the literature, one can also see scattering length in 2d.   it defined Can we even generalize it to 1d

				
					've seen pictures like th one, 

					

					 depict the outcome of the Double-slit experiment with wave-like or particle features, depending  measurement has taken place.

					The graphic sing multiple 'straight' lines on the detecting screen depicts the wave-like outcome, when the measurement of particles  taken at the target screen (on left).

					The graphic sing only two lines on the detecting screen depicts the wave function collapse, when an additional measurement  taken on the slits, to detect through  slit the particle has traveled (on right).

					The first effect has been recorded, as can bee seen here, but has the second one

				
					s the quantum -body problem as difficult as the classical -body problem 

					Or quantum mechanics allows to get a simpler exact solution

					Suppose there are 3 particles with uniform potential field. Can their wave functions be found exactly

				
					n studying the math of Quantum Mechanics,  came across the idea of the Dual Space, and  we need it to take scalar products. f a Hilbert space of kets represents state vectors/wavefunctions,  does the dual space of that Hilbert space represent in a physical sense  exactly does a ket's corresponding bra represent

				
					 does one determine the members of an simultaneously commuting set (of operators) For example,  have read that for orbital angular momentum, the set  {}.  does one know that these are all of them or that these particular operators should be included s it because such a set  sufficient to dtinguh all the eigenstates, degeneracies notwithstanding

					Also,    and 

					where  are integers

					s it defined as such or  it the result of the definition of some more fundamental things

				
					n quantum mechanics we use variational principle in order to find approximate expression for the ground state. Lets assume our probe wavefunction  can be expanded in orthonormal bas 
					
					Variational ansatz dictates minimization of the energy functional
					
					with constraint  (  a complex conjugate). Taking derivative we have equations for the coefficients:
					

					There  also dynamical variational principle where one minimizes Schrodinger action
					
					where
					
					Using Euler-Lagrange equations we get differential equations for :
					
					My question  whether or not energy  defined with coefficients  derived from Euler-Lagrange equations  a conserved quantity i.e. 

					  have in mind  the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian
					
					with variational ansatz:
					
					n th case Coefficients  are not a solution of the Schrodinger equation .

				
					 have been reading through th estimate of the ground state energy of hydrogen  and others like it. n th one it says it  using the uncertainty principal but then proceeded to use the following:
					
					But   it not using:
					
					  more in line with the uncertainty principle and  comes earlier in the derivation. 

				
					 in von Neumann expression of quantum entropy we have trace of density matrix expression  don't off diagonal term play a role

				
					On the one hand, we know that the overall phase of the wave function (of the whole system)  not a measurable quantity, but more an artifact of mathematical description — the physical states are rays in the Hilbert space. The description in terms of density matrix and quantum channels lacks th redundancy (at least, explicitly).

					On the other hand, in certain cases it feels like the phase  more physical than it could first seem. But th, of course,  another consequence of axioms of quantum mechanics, and we should be able to describe such situations within any of equivalent formalms.

					 would one, for example, study the Aharonov-Bohm effect using the formalm of density matrix and quantum channels

				
					n time-dependent perturbation theory where  and   considered small and has no explicit time dependence, the standard text-book treatment of the leading order probability amplitude for the system to make a transition from  to  

					

					f  consider transitions between two states of the same energy,  take the  limit, giving me

					

					 grows without bound in time, as .   would take th to mean that perturbation theory fails at long times.   then am  allowed to take the large time limit to derive Fermi's Golden rule, without rking failure of perturbation theory

				
					Specifically the Hamiltonian takes the form of

					

					a three body version of Jaynes-Cummings model.

					'm currently trying to diagonalize th Hamiltonian, a first step in our application of quantum Zeno effect to a three-body system. 

					 guess th Hamiltonian simply has no close-form diagonalization, just like in classical physics there  no closed-form general solution for a three-body system. So my question :  are several symbolic approximation techniques to diagonalize an Hermitian operator Better if that techniques particularly suits th Hamiltonian. The values of  need not be general; they can be set, say, all equal in order to simplify calculation.

				
					n th dcussion: http://chat.stackexchange.com/rooms/4243/dcussion-between-arnold-neumaier-and-ron-maimon Arnold Neumaier suggested that there might be a close link between classical and quantum integrability, while  think there are many more classically integrable systems than quantum integrable ones.

					The reason  that classically integrable systems are easy to make up--- you make up an infinite number of action and angle variables, and change canonical coordinates in some complicated way to x,p pairs, and say th x-p version  your system of interest. But quantum systems don't admit the same canonical transformation structure as classical systems, so there might be systems  have an integrable classical limit, but no real sign of integrability outside of the classical limit.

					But  don't know any examples! Most of the 1+1d integrable stuff  for cases where the classical and quantum integrability are linked up, for the obvious reason that people are interested in finding integrable systems, not examples where they are not. The reason  think finding an example  not trivial  because the classical integrability guarantees that the motion  not classically chaotic, and that the asymptotic quantum energy states are pretty regular. So  don't think one can look for a counterexample in finite dimensions, where all high enough energy states are permanently semi-classical.

					But consider a field theory on a lattice in 2+1 dimensions (continuous time). The lattice  so that the dynamics can be arbitrary, no continuum limit, no renormalization. Even if you have an integrable classical dynamics for the field theory, the energy can still dsipate over larger volumes (th n't 1+1 d), and eventually the classical field will be weak enough that the classical limit  no longer valid, and you see the quanta. Th allows the possibility that every finite energy state to eventually leave the semi-classical domain, and turns quantum, and then the integrability  lost.

					So  there a 2+1 (or 3+1) dimensional lattice scalar field theory where the classical dynamics  integrable, but the quantum mechanical system  not

					By saying that the quantum system  not integrable,  mean:

					
					the many particle S-matrix doesn't factorize or simplify in any significant way (aside from the weak asymptotic relations implied by having a classical integrable limit)
					there are only a finite number of quantum conserved currents (but an infinite number of conserved currents in the classical limit).
					

				
					So far in our lecture we defined creation operators  in the following way, that we said: 

					Somebody got you a antymmetric or symmetric N- particle state and now  puts another particle in state n, so that we end up with a symmetric/antymmetric N+1-particle state.
					Th interpretation  some clear to me in the sense that these  operators avoid the cumbersome slater determinants and so on. Despite, we are still dealing with well-defined symmetrized/antymmetrized product states that become extended or reduced by one state,  are hidden behind th notation.

					Now, we also defined field-operators in QM by  We said that they create a particle at position . Some, it  not clear to me  th means: 

					To create a particle at an exact position  in QM would mean that we now have an additional state  in our slater determinant.  doubt that th  the idea behind th. But, since the  operators act on -particle state and map to  particle states, the same must be true for . Nevertheless,  have difficulties interpreting the result.

					f anything  unclear, please let me know.

				
					 have never understood  measuring process (if any)  supposed to be continuously polling the quantum state of an unstable bound system subjected to decay via quantum tunnelling. The reason  reckon some kind of polling process should ext in the first place  the following:

					According to the QM postulates, the unitary evolution of such a system should by definition keep it reversible, so it  only when measured that a decay can be observed or not. But th would make the decay rate dependent on the measurement rate, while we well know that the decay probability  constant, and the decay deemed "spontaneaous". 

					 am  msing

					Edit:

					From the dcussion in the comment section  gather  have not been clear about   am asking here exactly. Let me try to reformulate the question.

					t  about  quantum tunnelling  supposed to explain the exponential dynamics of a decay process.  am not asking about the Zeno effect; quite the opposite, actually: , in the absence of any measurement, do we have an exponential decay at all  just do not understand at  point in the unitary evolution of the unstable system the tunnelling effect  spontaneously happening. 

					The polling process  imagined  just a way to ask " does the tunnelling effect manifest elf " because  cannot see  it can manifest without a measurement. Please do not infer that  am making up my pet theory here.  am only looking for a way to picture the situation,  at th time  don't get at all.

				
					We can solve the Schrodinger equation for the Hamiltonian operator from the classical Hamiltonian of hydrogen bound state, consting of proton and electron attracting each other electrodynamically, to get the eigenfunction,   corresponding to stationary bound state we wanted to find.

					But t must also be possibly explained through QED, but maybe rather complicated way.  can't even imagine the way it does. Could anyone explain it for me possibly qualitatively

				
					We know that Spin  described with  and that   a double cover of the rotation group . Th suggests a simple thought experiment, to be described below. The question then  in three parts: 

					
					s th thought experiment theoretically sound 
					Can it be conducted experimentally 
					f so  has been the result
					

					The experiment  to take a slab of material in  there are spin objects e.g. electrons all (or most) with spin . Then rotate that object  degrees (around an ax perpendicular to the spin direction), so that macroscopically we are back to where we started. Measure the electron spins. Do they point 

				
					  not a hermitian operator and hence doesn't represent an observable. Then,  can we interpret the expression

					

					the expectation value of position times momentum

					 to interpret the expectation value of a hermitian operator, say ,  clear: make several measurements on identically prepared systems and get the expectation value from the measured quantities.

					But now we are talking about the expectation value of an operator that doesn't represent an observable. The dcussion above hence n't valid. ever, computing  knowing  according to the mathematical definition can be done, so  can clearly be deduced if we know the wave function - but  can we interpret the quantity we get

					(The question ares from a line in my textbook - "in a stationary state, , ..." without further explanation -   th obvious)

				
					As  understand it, if virtual particles do not recombine within the plank time they become 'real'. 

					Th  proposed to happen in Hawking Radiation, where one virtual particle crosses the black hole's event horizon and the other does not, where it robs some energy from the black hole.

					Lawrence Krauss also proposes in h talk 'A Universe from Nothing' that from nothing (meaning the QED Foam) with a net energy of zero, a universe can be born, presumably (if simpltically) 'creating' matter by 'borrowing' energy from the Foam.

					These are both just proposed, but are there any other proposed (or demonstrated) mechanms by  virtual particles 'become real' Say extremely unlikely 'borrowings', or two close simultaneous events that repelled the particles before recombination, or small 'universe birth' events within our universe

					f it  indeed possible, to maintain the conservation of energy would there be some sort of 'negative energy' field left in the wake of the two created particles

				
					My professor told us that in quantum mechanics a transformation  a symmetry transformation if  

					Can you give me an easy explanation for th definition 

				
					t  my understanding that in the density matrix formalm for open quantum systems the environment-induced measurements/collapses/projections are accounted for by the Lindblad superoperator 
					(from   the physical meaning of the Lindblad operator in PSE). 

					The Lindblad operator  notably used to describe spontaneous emsion. 

					Does th mean that, in the context of the so-called "measurement problem", a spontaneous emsion  to be considered as a measurement 

					Would that be also true for alpha decay and other similar quantum tunnelling processes

				
					The wavefunction of a free electrons  variously described as a plane wave or a wave packet.  am fairly happy with the wave packet, as it  localed. 

					But if we change to the electron's rest frame, then there  no direction of motion, and thus the wavefunction must be otropic, presumably as a Gaussian wavepacket. 

					Yet the wavepacket supposedly expands over time in real space, permitting it to drop in energy in momentum space.

					Does th mean that the free-electron wavefunction  not stable n its own frame, will it simply expand ad infinitum until it interacts with another particle

					f the electron can continue to expand arbitrarily, then the probability that it retains its original momentum grows vanhingly small,  would deny conservation of momentum for any free particle with a significant path length.

				
					There  an account on dualities in quantum field theories and string theories by Polchinski from last week  

					http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5704

					At the end of page 4, he writes the wave/particle dichotomy ares from different limits you can take in a quantum field theory.

					 limits are meant here exactly, and can one give a proper example  assume it might relate to many/few quanta states.

				
					've recently written a comment in a different forum to a question about  to implement infinite potentials in quantum mechanics, that  things like a non-relativtic particle in an infinite potential well, in a rigorous way. Mathematically rigorous sources usually treat these systems by manually limiting the domain of definition of the wave functions and examining boundary conditions  make certain observables ess. self adjoint. My take on th  that these systems should in some sense be seen as "limits" of quantum systems with finite potentials. 'm not familiar with mathematically rigorous treatments of potentials,  have apparently fourhed since the 50s; 've been told by many physicts that their results aren't really interesting from a physical point of view. My question :  would one view a quantum system as a limiting case of other quantum systems.  believe th  a meaningfull concept.

					 would like to phrase th concept in a category-theoretic language. The idea  for the limiting system to be a categorical limit (inductive limit) of the other systems. My first attempt by just guessing failed merably and 'm not sure  to continue, nor have  been able to find any sources for th. 

					My guess was th: A Quantum System in my view should be a pair , where   a complex Hilbert space and  a self-adjoint, possibly unbounded linear operator (Hamiltonian. 'm not considering explicit time dependance) These are to be the objects in a category. My first guess at  a morphm should look like was th:
					A morphm from  to   a bounded linear map  such that  and for all : . 

					Th would lead to a notion of equivalence of quantum systems (omorphm) that seems appropriate to me ( guess it's almost too obvious that th was my starting point). ever there do not ext any morphms between the quantum systems of non-relativtic particles that have different constant potentials on bounded subset of space. Th leads me to conclude that the above  useless nonsense.

					
					    the correct framework for the Category of Quantum Systems Are there sources on th Has th concept been usefull or are there immediate reasons to believe it could be
					

					My general aim  to find a prece sense in  a quantum system can be a limiting case or a subsystem of other systems. f th can be done in a satfactory manner,  think sing that certain cases of Koopman-von Neumann Classical Mechanics are a limit of quantum systems gives a nice perspective on "the classical limit".

				
					n Sakurai's and Napolitano's book "Modern quantum mechanics" there's a nice proof of the theorem. Th can be found also almost identical on Wikipedia's Wigner–Eckart theorem - Proof.

					The thing that  bugging me about th proof  th part

					
					  We therefore have two sets of linear homogeneous equations
					  \
					  one for the Clebsch–Gordan coefficients  and one for
					  the matrix elements . t  not possible to exactly solve for
					  . We can only say that the ratios are equal, that 
  
					  
					

					While the rest  clear,  don't get  we conclude the proportionality. n general, th  clearly not true. Th  true only if the kernel of the matrix   one-dimensional. So there must be some other property of the coefficients  that allows us to conclude that the kernel  one-dimensional, and thus the proportionality of different  satfying the equation.

					Thanks in advance!

				
					Suppose you a have an ordinary Luttinger liquid with
					

					You then bosonize it using 
					
					where F  the Klein factor and  a bosonic field.

					My question ,  happens to F and  under time reversal 

					The problem here  that the usual result for fermions, 
					 
					

					where T  the time reversal operator, 
					 not so obvious when there  separation between the Klein factor and the phase.
					 mean,  would  turn into  

				
					 am trying to compute the temporal evolution of a coherent state  using a given hamiltonian of the form:
					 - My first attempt has been to find the action of the  over a Fock state  due to the fact that  can express the coherent states in terms of the Fock states: 
					and using that  attack the  that appears when computing the time evolution. 

					My problem :   have found  to be:  
					where  am stucked as it  not of the form  so i don't know  to do with the exponential: 
					 have attemped to manipulate the exponential term by using the BCH formula but  achieved nothing but a messed result

					EDT: 
					Here  add my achieved answer using the BCH formula: 
					  seems, to my unexperienced eye, to be wrong. 
					Thanks in advance. 

				
					'm going mad about the problem.

					 really don't understand  do electron have 1/2 spin number,  they are not actually spinning.

					 can accept that the electrons have their own magnetic field,   certain, but  do they have  of angular momentum, and  don't know  the heck  spin number.

					've read the definition of spin and spin quantum number more than a hundred times but there  no betterment. 've smashed my head in my desk more than a hundred times either.

					My question  the title.  can't  just think the spin as rotating

					 've saw recently,

					
					  electron's hypothetical surface would have to be moving faster than the speed of light in order for it to rotate quickly enough to produce the necessary angular momentum.
					

				
					 was playing around with a 3-D potential  such that  for , and  otherwe. By using the Schrödinger Equation,  sed that: 

					 then used the substitution  and  to get: 

					 describes the wavefunction  inside the sphere. Hence, the differential equation has the domain , and  cannot multiply both sides by . Th  unfortunate, because there  a similar equation for the outside of the sphere: 
					As th  outside the sphere,  can multiply both sides by  to get a familiar differential equation that can be solved easily: 

					f  do the same thing to ,  obtain the equation for simple harmonic motion, but substituting the solution back into  as a sanity check gives a divion by zero when evalutating for . After that,  tried a number of substitutions to make  have a more recognable form - to no avail. Then  had the idea of multiplying my trial solution by some other function of  so that upon substitution into , the evaluation of  doesn't give an infinity... but  don't know quite  to do that...

					Long story short..... my question :  trick do  need to get a meaningful solution to 

				
					'm having some trouble with successfully working out a rotation about the -ax on the Bloch sphere. 
					Now,  know  th  performed, in principle. 
					A rotation of the Bloch-sphere around an ax  by an angle   given by 
					
					where   the vector of Pauli-matrices.

					So for example if  start in \

					And  want to rotate by pi/2 around the x-ax,  simply compute the product with 

					\

					And  end up with 
					\

					ever, now  want to rotate th around the z-ax, by an angle theta. Now from   can tell th simply corresponds to the matrix multiplication with 
					\

					so that  end up with the vector

					\

					ever, here things go wrong. For example,  know that if  rotate by ,  should end up back at the same spot, but instead  end up at 
					\

					  not correct. Could someone point out the obvious error

				
					s the particle entanglement a boolean property That , when we consider two given particles,  the answer to the question "are they entangled" always either "yes" or "no" (or, of course, "we are not sure if it's yes or no") s there such thing as partial entanglement

				
					'm trying to understand entanglement in terms of scarcity and abundance. 

					Given an arbitrary vector  representing a pure quantum state of, say, dimension 4,  i.e. , 

					
					  s  more likely to be entangled than non-entangled (separable)
					

					By trying to answer it myself ,  can see that the separability test  based on an extential quantifier, namely trying to prove that  such that . 

					The entanglement test on the other hand  based on a universal quantifier,  So, th reasoning  could suggest that entangled vectors are much more scarce than separable ones because it  easier to find one simple example (extential) that satfies the condition than to check for every single one (universal). 

					Th result would make sense physically since entanglement  a valuable resource so, intuitively, it should be scarce.

					Does th reasoning make any sense at all, or am  saying nonsense 
					Any help would be greatly appreciated. 

					PS:  would assume extending th reasoning to (density) matrices would be obvious. 

				
					Th recent news article reports that DARPA  doing work with "quantized inertia", despite their claim that it's not widely accepted by physicts:

					
					  